00.md, before:

NUT-00: Notation, Utilization, and Terminology
==========================

`mandatory`

---

This document details the notation and models used throughout the specification and lays the groundwork for understanding the basic cryptography used in the Cashu protocol.

- Sending user: `Alice`
- Receiving user: `Carol`
- Mint: `Bob`



# Blind Diffie-Hellmann key exchange (BDHKE)

## Variables

- `G` elliptic curve generator point

### Bob (mint)

- `k` private key of mint (one for each amount)
- `K` public key of mint
- `Q` promise (blinded signature)

### Alice (user)

- `x` random string (secret message), corresponds to point `Y` on curve
- `r` private key (blinding factor)
- `T` blinded message
- `Z` proof (unblinded signature)

## Protocol

- Mint `Bob` publishes public key `K = kG` 
- `Alice` picks secret `x` and computes `Y = hash_to_curve(x)`
- `Alice` sends to `Bob`: `B_ = Y + rG` with `r` being a random blinding factor (**blinding**)
- `Bob` sends back to `Alice` blinded key: `C_ = kB_` (these two steps are the DH key exchange) (**signing**)
- `Alice` can calculate the unblinded key as `C_ - rK = kY + krG - krG = kY = C` (**unblinding**)
- Alice can take the pair `(x, C)` as a token and can send it to `Carol`.
- `Carol` can send `(x, C)` to `Bob` who then checks that `k*hash_to_curve(x) == C` (**verification**), and if so treats it as a valid spend of a token, adding `x`  to the list of spent secrets.

## 0.1 - Models

### `BlindedMessage`

An encrypted ("blinded") secret and an amount is sent from `Alice` to `Bob` for [minting tokens][04] or for [swapping tokens][03]. A `BlindedMessage` is also called an `output`.

```json
{
  "amount": int,
  "id": hex_str,
  "B_": hex_str
}
```

 `amount` is the value for the requested `BlindSignature`, `id` is the requested keyset ID from which we expect a signature,  and `B_` is the blinded secret message generated by `Alice`. An array `[BlindedMessage]` is also referred to as `BlindedMessages`.

### `BlindSignature`

A `BlindSignature` is sent from `Bob` to `Alice` after [minting tokens][04] or after [swapping tokens][03]. A `BlindSignature` is also called a `promise`.

```json
{
  "amount": int,
  "id": hex_str,
  "C_": hex_str
}
```

`amount` is the value of the blinded token, `id` is the [keyset id][02] of the mint keys that signed the token, and `C_` is the blinded signature on the secret message `B_` sent in the previous step.

### `Proof`

A `Proof` is also called an input and is generated by `Alice` from a `BlindSignature` it received. An array `[Proof]` is called `Proofs`. `Alice` sends `Proofs` to `Bob` for [melting tokens][05]. [Serialized](#serialization-of-tokens) `Proofs` can also be sent from `Alice` to `Carol`. Upon receiving the token, `Carol` deserializes it and requests a [swap][03] from `Bob` to receive new `Proofs`. 

```json
{
  "amount": int, 
  "id": hex_str,
  "secret": str,
  "C": hex_str,
}
```

`amount` is the amount of the `Proof`, `secret` is the secret message (no encoding enforced, 32 byte random hex string recommended to prevent fingerprinting), `C` is the unblinded signature on `secret` (hex string), `id` is the [keyset id][02] of the mint public keys that signed the token (hex string).

## 0.2 - Protocol

### Errors
In case of an error, mints respond with the HTTP status code `400` and include the following data in their response:

```json
{
  "detail": "oops",
  "code": 1337
}
```
Here, `detail` is the error message, and `code` is the error code. Error codes are to be defined in the documents concerning the use of a certain API endpoint.

## 0.3 - Methods

### Serialization of tokens

Tokens can be serialized to send them between users `Alice` and `Carol`. Serialized tokens have a Cashu token prefix, a versioning flag, and the token. Optionally, a URI prefix for making tokens clickable on the web.

We use the following format for token serialization:

```sh
cashu[version][token]
```

#### V3 tokens

Wallets serialize tokens in a `base64_urlsafe` format (base64 encoding with `/` replaced by `_` and `+` by `-`). 

```sh
cashu[version][base64_token_json]
```

`cashu` is the Cashu token prefix. `[version]` is a single `base64_urlsafe` character to denote the token format version (starting with `A` for the present token format). `[base64_token_json]` is the token JSON serialized in `base64_urlsafe`. A `[base64_token_json]` should be cleared of any whitespace before serializing.

##### Version
This token format has the `[version]` value `A`.

##### URI tags

To make Cashu tokens clickable on the web, we use the URI tags `cashu:` or `cashu://` or `web+cashu://` (for PWAs).

A serialized token with URI tag becomes 

```sh
cashu:cashuAeyJwcm9vZn...
```

##### Token format

The deserialized `base64_token_json` is

```json
{
  "token": [
    {
      "mint": str,
      "proofs": Proofs
    },
    ...
  ],
  "unit": str <optional>,
  "memo": str <optional>
}
```
`mint` is the mint URL, `Proofs` is an array of `Proof` objects. The next two elements are only for displaying the receiving user appropriate information: `unit` is the currency unit of the token keysets (see [Keysets][01] for supported units), and `memo` is an optional text memo from the sender. 


##### Example JSON

```json
{
  "token": [
    {
      "mint": "https://8333.space:3338",
      "proofs": [
        {
          "amount": 2,
          "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
          "secret": "407915bc212be61a77e3e6d2aeb4c727980bda51cd06a6afc29e2861768a7837",
          "C": "02bc9097997d81afb2cc7346b5e4345a9346bd2a506eb7958598a72f0cf85163ea"
        },
        {
          "amount": 8,
          "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
          "secret": "fe15109314e61d7756b0f8ee0f23a624acaa3f4e042f61433c728c7057b931be",
          "C": "029e8e5050b890a7d6c0968db16bc1d5d5fa040ea1de284f6ec69d61299f671059"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "unit": "sat",
  "memo": "Thank you."
}
```

When serialized, this becomes:
```
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
```

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md

Commit message:

NUT-00/NUT-11: clarify types for `secret` and signatures on inputs and outputs (#78)
* clarify that `secret` is a utf-8 string

* wording

* P2PK: clarify that outputs are signed as bytes

* clarify that 32 byte hex is a 64 character string

* wording

00.md, after:

NUT-00: Notation, Utilization, and Terminology
==========================

`mandatory`

---

This document details the notation and models used throughout the specification and lays the groundwork for understanding the basic cryptography used in the Cashu protocol.

- Sending user: `Alice`
- Receiving user: `Carol`
- Mint: `Bob`



# Blind Diffie-Hellmann key exchange (BDHKE)

## Variables

- `G` elliptic curve generator point

### Bob (mint)

- `k` private key of mint (one for each amount)
- `K` public key of mint
- `Q` promise (blinded signature)

### Alice (user)

- `x` random string (secret message), corresponds to point `Y` on curve
- `r` private key (blinding factor)
- `T` blinded message
- `Z` proof (unblinded signature)

## Protocol

- Mint `Bob` publishes public key `K = kG` 
- `Alice` picks secret `x` and computes `Y = hash_to_curve(x)`
- `Alice` sends to `Bob`: `B_ = Y + rG` with `r` being a random blinding factor (**blinding**)
- `Bob` sends back to `Alice` blinded key: `C_ = kB_` (these two steps are the DH key exchange) (**signing**)
- `Alice` can calculate the unblinded key as `C_ - rK = kY + krG - krG = kY = C` (**unblinding**)
- Alice can take the pair `(x, C)` as a token and can send it to `Carol`.
- `Carol` can send `(x, C)` to `Bob` who then checks that `k*hash_to_curve(x) == C` (**verification**), and if so treats it as a valid spend of a token, adding `x`  to the list of spent secrets.

## 0.1 - Models

### `BlindedMessage`

An encrypted ("blinded") secret and an amount is sent from `Alice` to `Bob` for [minting tokens][04] or for [swapping tokens][03]. A `BlindedMessage` is also called an `output`.

```json
{
  "amount": int,
  "id": hex_str,
  "B_": hex_str
}
```

 `amount` is the value for the requested `BlindSignature`, `id` is the requested keyset ID from which we expect a signature,  and `B_` is the blinded secret message generated by `Alice`. An array `[BlindedMessage]` is also referred to as `BlindedMessages`.

### `BlindSignature`

A `BlindSignature` is sent from `Bob` to `Alice` after [minting tokens][04] or after [swapping tokens][03]. A `BlindSignature` is also called a `promise`.

```json
{
  "amount": int,
  "id": hex_str,
  "C_": hex_str
}
```

`amount` is the value of the blinded token, `id` is the [keyset id][02] of the mint keys that signed the token, and `C_` is the blinded signature on the secret message `B_` sent in the previous step.

### `Proof`

A `Proof` is also called an input and is generated by `Alice` from a `BlindSignature` it received. An array `[Proof]` is called `Proofs`. `Alice` sends `Proofs` to `Bob` for [melting tokens][05]. [Serialized](#serialization-of-tokens) `Proofs` can also be sent from `Alice` to `Carol`. Upon receiving the token, `Carol` deserializes it and requests a [swap][03] from `Bob` to receive new `Proofs`. 

```json
{
  "amount": int, 
  "id": hex_str,
  "secret": str,
  "C": hex_str,
}
```

`amount` is the amount of the `Proof`, `secret` is the secret message and is a utf-8 encoded string (the use of a 64 character hex string generated from 32 random bytes is recommended to prevent fingerprinting), `C` is the unblinded signature on `secret` (hex string), `id` is the [keyset id][02] of the mint public keys that signed the token (hex string).

## 0.2 - Protocol

### Errors
In case of an error, mints respond with the HTTP status code `400` and include the following data in their response:

```json
{
  "detail": "oops",
  "code": 1337
}
```
Here, `detail` is the error message, and `code` is the error code. Error codes are to be defined in the documents concerning the use of a certain API endpoint.

## 0.3 - Methods

### Serialization of tokens

Tokens can be serialized to send them between users `Alice` and `Carol`. Serialized tokens have a Cashu token prefix, a versioning flag, and the token. Optionally, a URI prefix for making tokens clickable on the web.

We use the following format for token serialization:

```sh
cashu[version][token]
```

#### V3 tokens

Wallets serialize tokens in a `base64_urlsafe` format (base64 encoding with `/` replaced by `_` and `+` by `-`). 

```sh
cashu[version][base64_token_json]
```

`cashu` is the Cashu token prefix. `[version]` is a single `base64_urlsafe` character to denote the token format version (starting with `A` for the present token format). `[base64_token_json]` is the token JSON serialized in `base64_urlsafe`. A `[base64_token_json]` should be cleared of any whitespace before serializing.

##### Version
This token format has the `[version]` value `A`.

##### URI tags

To make Cashu tokens clickable on the web, we use the URI tags `cashu:` or `cashu://` or `web+cashu://` (for PWAs).

A serialized token with URI tag becomes 

```sh
cashu:cashuAeyJwcm9vZn...
```

##### Token format

The deserialized `base64_token_json` is

```json
{
  "token": [
    {
      "mint": str,
      "proofs": Proofs
    },
    ...
  ],
  "unit": str <optional>,
  "memo": str <optional>
}
```
`mint` is the mint URL, `Proofs` is an array of `Proof` objects. The next two elements are only for displaying the receiving user appropriate information: `unit` is the currency unit of the token keysets (see [Keysets][01] for supported units), and `memo` is an optional text memo from the sender. 


##### Example JSON

```json
{
  "token": [
    {
      "mint": "https://8333.space:3338",
      "proofs": [
        {
          "amount": 2,
          "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
          "secret": "407915bc212be61a77e3e6d2aeb4c727980bda51cd06a6afc29e2861768a7837",
          "C": "02bc9097997d81afb2cc7346b5e4345a9346bd2a506eb7958598a72f0cf85163ea"
        },
        {
          "amount": 8,
          "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
          "secret": "fe15109314e61d7756b0f8ee0f23a624acaa3f4e042f61433c728c7057b931be",
          "C": "029e8e5050b890a7d6c0968db16bc1d5d5fa040ea1de284f6ec69d61299f671059"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "unit": "sat",
  "memo": "Thank you."
}
```

When serialized, this becomes:
```
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
```

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
