01.md, before:

# NUT-01: Mint public key exchange

`mandatory`

---

This document outlines the exchange of the public keys of the mint `Bob` with the wallet user `Alice`. `Alice` uses the keys to unblind `Bob`'s blind signatures (see [NUT-00][00]).

## Description

Wallet user `Alice` receives public keys from mint `Bob` via `GET /v1/keys`. The set of all public keys for a set of amounts is called a _keyset_.

The mint responds only with its `active` keysets. Keyset are `active` if the mint will sign outputs with it. The mint will accept tokens from inactive keysets as inputs but will not sign with them for new outputs. The `active` keysets can change over time, for example due to key rotation. A list of all keysets, active and inactive, can be requested separately (see [NUT-02][02]).

Note that a mint can support multiple keysets at the same time but will only respond with the active keysets on the endpoint `GET /v1/keys`. A wallet can ask for the keys of a specific (active or inactive) keyset via the endpoint `GET /v1/keys/{keyset_id}` (see [NUT-02][02]).

## Keyset generation

Keysets are generated by the mint. The mint is free to use any key generation method they like. Each keyset is identified by its keyset `id` which can be computed by anyone from its public keys (see [NUT-02][02]).

Keys in Keysets are maps of the form `{<amount_1> : <mint_pubkey_1>, <amount_2> : <mint_pubkey_2>, ...}` for each `<amount_i>` of the amounts the mint `Bob` supports and the corresponding public key `<mint_pubkey_1>`, that is `K_i` (see [NUT-00][00]). The mint **MUST** use the [compressed Secp256k1 public key format](https://learnmeabitcoin.com/technical/public-key#public-key-format) to represent its public keys.

## Example

Request of `Alice`:

```http
GET https://mint.host:3338/v1/keys
```

With curl:

```bash
curl -X GET https://mint.host:3338/v1/keys
```

Response `GetKeysResponse` of `Bob`:

```json
{
  "keysets": [
    {
      "id": <keyset_id_hex_str>,
      "unit": <currency_unit_str>,
      "keys": {
        <amount_int>: <public_key_str>,
        ...
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Example response

```json
{
  "keysets": [
    {
      "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
      "unit": "sat",
      "keys": {
          "1": "02194603ffa36356f4a56b7df9371fc3192472351453ec7398b8da8117e7c3e104",
          "2": "03b0f36d6d47ce14df8a7be9137712c42bcdd960b19dd02f1d4a9703b1f31d7513",
          "4": "0366be6e026e42852498efb82014ca91e89da2e7a5bd3761bdad699fa2aec9fe09",
          "8": "0253de5237f189606f29d8a690ea719f74d65f617bb1cb6fbea34f2bc4f930016d",
          ...
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md

Commit message:

Add supported units section and clarify unit denomination

01.md, after:

# NUT-01: Mint public key exchange

`mandatory`

---

This document outlines the exchange of the public keys of the mint `Bob` with the wallet user `Alice`. `Alice` uses the keys to unblind `Bob`'s blind signatures (see [NUT-00][00]).

## Description

Wallet user `Alice` receives public keys from mint `Bob` via `GET /v1/keys`. The set of all public keys for a set of amounts is called a _keyset_.

The mint responds only with its `active` keysets. Keyset are `active` if the mint will sign outputs with it. The mint will accept tokens from inactive keysets as inputs but will not sign with them for new outputs. The `active` keysets can change over time, for example due to key rotation. A list of all keysets, active and inactive, can be requested separately (see [NUT-02][02]).

Note that a mint can support multiple keysets at the same time but will only respond with the active keysets on the endpoint `GET /v1/keys`. A wallet can ask for the keys of a specific (active or inactive) keyset via the endpoint `GET /v1/keys/{keyset_id}` (see [NUT-02][02]).

## Supported Currency Units

A mint MUST support the Bitcoin `sat` unit, and may OPTIONALLY support any other currency units, including:

- `msat`: defined as 1/1000th of a `sat` (ie: 1000 `msat` = 1 `sat`)
- `auth`: reserved for Blind Authentication (see [NUT-22][22])
- [ISO 4217](https://www.iso.org/iso-4217-currency-codes.html) currency codes (eg: `usd`, `eur`, `gbp`)
- Stablecoin currency codes (eg: `usdt`, `usdc`, `eurc`, `gyen`)

> [!NOTE]
> For ISO 4217 currencies (and stablecoins pegged to those currencies), amounts MUST be denomimated in the Minor Unit of that currency. For example:
> - `usd 1` (Minor Unit: 2) = 0.01 USD
> - `jpy 1` (Minor Unit: 0) = 1 JPY
> - `bhd 1` (Minor Unit: 3) = 0.001 BHD
> - `eurc 1` (Pegged to EUR, Minor Unit: 2) = 0.01 EURC

## Keyset generation

Keysets are generated by the mint. The mint is free to use any key generation method they like. Each keyset is identified by its keyset `id` which can be computed by anyone from its public keys (see [NUT-02][02]).

Keys in Keysets are maps of the form `{<amount_1> : <mint_pubkey_1>, <amount_2> : <mint_pubkey_2>, ...}` for each `<amount_i>` of the amounts the mint `Bob` supports and the corresponding public key `<mint_pubkey_1>`, that is `K_i` (see [NUT-00][00]). The mint **MUST** use the [compressed Secp256k1 public key format](https://learnmeabitcoin.com/technical/public-key#public-key-format) to represent its public keys.

## Example

Request of `Alice`:

```http
GET https://mint.host:3338/v1/keys
```

With curl:

```bash
curl -X GET https://mint.host:3338/v1/keys
```

Response `GetKeysResponse` of `Bob`:

```json
{
  "keysets": [
    {
      "id": <keyset_id_hex_str>,
      "unit": <currency_unit_str>,
      "keys": {
        <amount_int>: <public_key_str>,
        ...
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Example response

```json
{
  "keysets": [
    {
      "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
      "unit": "sat",
      "keys": {
          "1": "02194603ffa36356f4a56b7df9371fc3192472351453ec7398b8da8117e7c3e104",
          "2": "03b0f36d6d47ce14df8a7be9137712c42bcdd960b19dd02f1d4a9703b1f31d7513",
          "4": "0366be6e026e42852498efb82014ca91e89da2e7a5bd3761bdad699fa2aec9fe09",
          "8": "0253de5237f189606f29d8a690ea719f74d65f617bb1cb6fbea34f2bc4f930016d",
          ...
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
