04.md, before:

NUT-04: Mint tokens
==========================

`mandatory` `author: calle`

---

After requesting a mint (see [NUT-03][03]) and paying the invoice that was returned by the mint, a wallet proceeds with requesting tokens from the mint in return for paying the invoice. 

For that, a wallet sends a `POST /mint?hash=<hash>` request with a JSON body to the mint. The body **MUST** include `BlindedMessages` (see [NUT-00][00]) that are worth a maximum of `<amount_sat>`. If successful (i.e. the invoice has been previously paid and the `BlindedMessages` are valid), the mint responds with `Promises` (see [NUT-00][00]).

## Example

Request of `Alice`:

```http
POST https://mint.host:3338/mint?hash=67d1d9ea6ada225c115418671b64a
```

With the json payload data being of the form `PostMintRequest`:

```json
{
  "outputs": `BlindedMessages`
}
```

`BlindedMessages` is a list (array) of `BlindedMessage`s.

With curl:

```bash
curl -X POST https://mint.host:3338/mint?hash=67d1d9ea6ada225c115418671b64a -d \
{
  "outputs": 
  [
    {
    "amount": 2, 
    "B_": "02634a2c2b34bec9e8a4aba4361f6bf202d7fa2365379b0840afe249a7a9d71239"
    },
    {
    "amount": 8, 
    "B_": "03b54ab451b15005f2c64d38fc512fca695914c8fd5094ee044e5724ad41fda247"
    }
  ]
}
```

Response of `Bob`: 

If the invoice was successfully paid, `Bob` responds with a `PostMintResponse` which is a list of `BlindedSignature`'s (see [NUT-0][00]).

```json
{
"promises":
  [
    {
    "id": "DSAl9nvvyfva",
    "amount": 2,
    "C_": "03e61daa438fc7bcc53f6920ec6c8c357c24094fb04c1fc60e2606df4910b21ffb"
    },
    {
    "id": "DSAl9nvvyfva",
    "amount": 8,
    "C_": "03fd4ce5a16b65576145949e6f99f445f8249fee17c606b688b504a849cdc452de"
    },
  ]
}
```

If the invoice was not paid yet, `Bob` responds with an error. In that case, `Alice` **CAN** repeat the same request until the Lightning invoice is settled.

## Unblinding signatures

Upon receiving the `PostMintResponse` with the list of `BlindedSignature`'s from the mint `Bob`, a wallet `Alice` **MUST** then unblind the `BlindedSignature`'s from `Bob` (see BDHKE [NUT-0][00]) to generate a list of `Proof`'s. A `Proof` is effectively an ecash `Token` and can later be used to redeem the token. The wallet **MUST** store the `Proof` in its database.

A list multiple `Proof`'s is called `Proofs` and has the form:

```json
{
"proofs" : 
  [
    {
    "id": "DSAl9nvvyfva",
    "amount": 2,
    "secret": "S+tDfc1Lfsrb06zaRdVTed6Izg",
    "C": "0242b0fb43804d8ba9a64ceef249ad7a60f42c15fe6d4907238b05e857527832a3"
    },
    {
    ...
    }
  ]
}
```

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
[13]: 13.md
[14]: 14.md
[15]: 15.md
[16]: 16.md
[17]: 17.md
[18]: 18.md
[19]: 19.md
[20]: 20.md

Commit message:

Clarify how clients should order lists of outputs to preserve privacy (#35)
* Clarify how clients should order lists of outputs to preserve privacy

* Apply suggestions from code review

accept and slightly reword

* Apply suggestions from code review

accept and slightly reword

---------

Co-authored-by: callebtc <93376500+callebtc@users.noreply.github.com>

04.md, after:

NUT-04: Mint tokens
==========================

`mandatory` `author: calle`

---

After requesting a mint (see [NUT-03][03]) and paying the invoice that was returned by the mint, a wallet proceeds with requesting tokens from the mint in return for paying the invoice. 

For that, a wallet sends a `POST /mint?hash=<hash>` request with a JSON body to the mint. The body **MUST** include `BlindedMessages` (see [NUT-00][00]) that are worth a maximum of `<amount_sat>`. If successful (i.e. the invoice has been previously paid and the `BlindedMessages` are valid), the mint responds with `Promises` (see [NUT-00][00]). 

Note: In order to preserve privacy around the amount that a client might want to send to another user and keep the rest as change, the client **SHOULD** ensure that the list of `BlindedMessage`s is ordered by amount in ascending order. As an example of what to avoid, a request for tokens expressed like so: `[16, 8, 2, 64, 8]` might imply the client is building a payment for 26 sat; the client should instead order the list like so: `[2, 8, 8, 16, 64]` to mitigate this privacy leak to the mint.

## Example

Request of `Alice`:

```http
POST https://mint.host:3338/mint?hash=67d1d9ea6ada225c115418671b64a
```

With the json payload data being of the form `PostMintRequest`:

```json
{
  "outputs": `BlindedMessages`
}
```

`BlindedMessages` is a list (array) of `BlindedMessage`s.

With curl:

```bash
curl -X POST https://mint.host:3338/mint?hash=67d1d9ea6ada225c115418671b64a -d \
{
  "outputs": 
  [
    {
    "amount": 2, 
    "B_": "02634a2c2b34bec9e8a4aba4361f6bf202d7fa2365379b0840afe249a7a9d71239"
    },
    {
    "amount": 8, 
    "B_": "03b54ab451b15005f2c64d38fc512fca695914c8fd5094ee044e5724ad41fda247"
    }
  ]
}
```

Response of `Bob`: 

If the invoice was successfully paid, `Bob` responds with a `PostMintResponse` which is a list of `BlindedSignature`'s (see [NUT-0][00]).

```json
{
"promises":
  [
    {
    "id": "DSAl9nvvyfva",
    "amount": 2,
    "C_": "03e61daa438fc7bcc53f6920ec6c8c357c24094fb04c1fc60e2606df4910b21ffb"
    },
    {
    "id": "DSAl9nvvyfva",
    "amount": 8,
    "C_": "03fd4ce5a16b65576145949e6f99f445f8249fee17c606b688b504a849cdc452de"
    },
  ]
}
```

If the invoice was not paid yet, `Bob` responds with an error. In that case, `Alice` **CAN** repeat the same request until the Lightning invoice is settled.

## Unblinding signatures

Upon receiving the `PostMintResponse` with the list of `BlindedSignature`'s from the mint `Bob`, a wallet `Alice` **MUST** then unblind the `BlindedSignature`'s from `Bob` (see BDHKE [NUT-0][00]) to generate a list of `Proof`'s. A `Proof` is effectively an ecash `Token` and can later be used to redeem the token. The wallet **MUST** store the `Proof` in its database.

A list multiple `Proof`'s is called `Proofs` and has the form:

```json
{
"proofs" : 
  [
    {
    "id": "DSAl9nvvyfva",
    "amount": 2,
    "secret": "S+tDfc1Lfsrb06zaRdVTed6Izg",
    "C": "0242b0fb43804d8ba9a64ceef249ad7a60f42c15fe6d4907238b05e857527832a3"
    },
    {
    ...
    }
  ]
}
```

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
[13]: 13.md
[14]: 14.md
[15]: 15.md
[16]: 16.md
[17]: 17.md
[18]: 18.md
[19]: 19.md
[20]: 20.md
