05.md, before:

NUT-05: Melting tokens
==========================

`mandatory` `author: calle`

---

Melting tokens is the opposite of minting tokens (see [NUT-04][04]). Like minting tokens, melting is a two-step process: requesting a melt quote and melting tokens. Here, we describe both steps. 

In the first request the wallet asks the mint for a quote for a `request` it wants paid by the mint and the `unit` the wallet would like to spend as inputs. The mint responds with a quote that includes a `quote` id and an `amount` the mint demands in the requested unit. For the method `bolt11`, the mint includes a `fee_reserve` field indicating the reserve fee for a Lightning payment.

In the second request, the wallet includes the `quote` id and provides `inputs` that sum up to `amount+fee_reserve` in the first response. For the method `bolt11`, the wallet can also include `outputs` in order for the mint to return overpaid Lightning fees (see [NUT-08][08]). The mint responds with a payment status `paid` and a `proof` of payment. If the request included `outputs`, the mint may respond with `change` for the overpaid fees (see [NUT-08][08]).

We limit this document to mint quotes of `unit="sat"` and `method="bolt11"` which requests a bolt11 Lightning payment (typically paid by the mint from its Bitcoin reserves).


# Melt quote

The mint expects `Alice` to include `Proofs` of *at least* `total_amount = amount + fee_reserve` where `amount` is the amount to be paid with the Lightning invoice and `fee_reserve` is the maximum potential Lightning network fees for the payment. A wallet should first call the `/checkfees` endpoint to ask the mint what the expected maximum fee is by making a `CheckFeesRequest` POST request:

```http
POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/melt/quote/bolt11
```
With the data being of the form `PostMeltQuoteBolt11Request`:

```json
{
  "request": <str>,
  "unit": <str_enum["sat"]>
}
```

Here, `request` is the bolt11 Lightning invoice to be paid and `unit` is the unit the wallet would like to pay with.

 The mint `Bob` then responds with a `PostMeltQuoteBolt11Response`:

```json
{
  "quote": <str>,
  "amount": <int>,
  "fee_reserve": <int>,
  "paid": <bool>,
  "expiry": <int>
}
```
Where `quote` is the quote ID, `amount` the amount that needs to be provided, and `fee_reserve` the additional fee reserve that is required. `paid` indicates whether the request as been paid and `expiry` is the Unix timestamp until which the melt quote is valid.

## Example

Request of `Alice` with curl:

```bash
curl -X POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/melt/quote/bolt11 -d \
{
  "request": "lnbc100n1p3kdrv5sp5lpdxzghe5j67q...",
  "unit": "sat"
}
```

Response of `Bob`:

```json
{
  "quote": "TRmjduhIsPxd...",
  "amount": 10,
  "fee_reserve": 2,
  "paid": false,
  "expiry": 1701704757  
}
```

## Check melt quote state

To check whether a melt quote has been paid, `Alice` makes a `GET /v1/melt/quote/bolt11/{quote_id}`.

```http
GET https://mint.host:3338/v1/melt/quote/bolt11/{quote_id}
```

Like before, the mint `Bob` responds with a `PostMeltQuoteBolt11Response`.

Example request of `Alice` with curl:

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:3338/v1/melt/quote/bolt11/TRmjduhIsPxd...
```

# Melting tokens

Now that `Alice` knows what the total amount is (`amount + fee_reserve`) in her requested `unit`, she can proceed for melting tokens for which a payment will be executed by the mint. She calls the `POST /v1/melt/{method}` endpoint where `method` is the payment method requested (here `bolt11`).

```http
POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/melt/bolt11
```

⚠️ **Attention:** This call will block until the Lightning payment either succeeds or fails. This can take quite a long time in case the Lightning payment is slow. Make sure to **use no (or a very long) timeout when making this call**!

The wallet `Alice` includes the following `PostMeltBolt11Request` data in its request

```json
{
  "quote": <str>,
  "inputs": <Array[Proof]>
}
```

Here, `pr` is the bolt11 invoice to be paid with an amount `amount` and `proofs` are the proofs with a total amount of at least `amount + fee_reserve` (see previous melt quote response).

The mint `Bob` then responds with a `PostMeltBolt11Response`:

```json
{
  "paid": <bool>,
  "proof": <str>
}
```
`paid` is a boolean indicating whether the payment was successful, and `proof` being the bol11 payment preimage. 

If `paid==true`, `Alice`'s wallet can delete the `inputs` from her database (or move them to a history). If `paid==false`, `Alice` can repeat the same request again until the payment is successful.

## Example

Request of `Alice` with curl:

```bash
curl -X POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/melt/bolt11 -d \
'{
  "quote": "od4CN5smMMS3K3QVHkbGGNCTxfcAIyIXeq8IrfhP",
  "inputs": [
    {
      "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
      "amount": 4,
      "secret": "429700b812a58436be2629af8731a31a37fce54dbf8cbbe90b3f8553179d23f5",
      "C": "03b01869f528337e161a6768b480fcf9f75fd248b649c382f5e352489fd84fd011",
    },
    {
      "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
      "amount": 8,
      "secret": "4f3155acef6481108fcf354f6d06e504ce8b441e617d30c88924991298cdbcad",
      "C": "0278ab1c1af35487a5ea903b693e96447b2034d0fd6bac529e753097743bf73ca9",
    }
  ]
}'
```

Response of `Bob`: 

```json
{
  "paid": true,
  "proof": "c5a1ae1f639e1f4a3872e81500fd028bece7bedc1152f740cba5c3417b748c1b"
}
```

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md

Commit message:

PostMeltBolt11Response: proof -> payment_preimage

05.md, after:

NUT-05: Melting tokens
==========================

`mandatory` `author: calle`

---

Melting tokens is the opposite of minting tokens (see [NUT-04][04]). Like minting tokens, melting is a two-step process: requesting a melt quote and melting tokens. Here, we describe both steps. 

In the first request the wallet asks the mint for a quote for a `request` it wants paid by the mint and the `unit` the wallet would like to spend as inputs. The mint responds with a quote that includes a `quote` id and an `amount` the mint demands in the requested unit. For the method `bolt11`, the mint includes a `fee_reserve` field indicating the reserve fee for a Lightning payment.

In the second request, the wallet includes the `quote` id and provides `inputs` that sum up to `amount+fee_reserve` in the first response. For the method `bolt11`, the wallet can also include `outputs` in order for the mint to return overpaid Lightning fees (see [NUT-08][08]). The mint responds with a payment status `paid` and a `proof` of payment. If the request included `outputs`, the mint may respond with `change` for the overpaid fees (see [NUT-08][08]).

We limit this document to mint quotes of `unit="sat"` and `method="bolt11"` which requests a bolt11 Lightning payment (typically paid by the mint from its Bitcoin reserves).


# Melt quote

To request a melt quote, the wallet of `Alice` makes a `POST /v1/melt/quote/{method}` request where `method` is the payment method requested (here `bolt11`). 

```http
POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/melt/quote/bolt11
```

The wallet `Alice` includes the following `PostMeltQuoteBolt11Request` data in its request:

```json
{
  "request": <str>,
  "unit": <str_enum["sat"]>
}
```

Here, `request` is the bolt11 Lightning invoice to be paid and `unit` is the unit the wallet would like to pay with.

 The mint `Bob` then responds with a `PostMeltQuoteBolt11Response`:

```json
{
  "quote": <str>,
  "amount": <int>,
  "fee_reserve": <int>,
  "paid": <bool>,
  "expiry": <int>
}
```
Where `quote` is the quote ID, `amount` the amount that needs to be provided, and `fee_reserve` the additional fee reserve that is required. The mint expects `Alice` to include `Proofs` of *at least* `total_amount = amount + fee_reserve`. `paid` indicates whether the request as been paid and `expiry` is the Unix timestamp until which the melt quote is valid.

## Example

Request of `Alice` with curl:

```bash
curl -X POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/melt/quote/bolt11 -d \
{
  "request": "lnbc100n1p3kdrv5sp5lpdxzghe5j67q...",
  "unit": "sat"
}
```

Response of `Bob`:

```json
{
  "quote": "TRmjduhIsPxd...",
  "amount": 10,
  "fee_reserve": 2,
  "paid": false,
  "expiry": 1701704757  
}
```

## Check melt quote state

To check whether a melt quote has been paid, `Alice` makes a `GET /v1/melt/quote/bolt11/{quote_id}`.

```http
GET https://mint.host:3338/v1/melt/quote/bolt11/{quote_id}
```

Like before, the mint `Bob` responds with a `PostMeltQuoteBolt11Response`.

Example request of `Alice` with curl:

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:3338/v1/melt/quote/bolt11/TRmjduhIsPxd...
```

# Melting tokens

Now that `Alice` knows what the total amount is (`amount + fee_reserve`) in her requested `unit`, she can proceed for melting tokens for which a payment will be executed by the mint. She calls the `POST /v1/melt/{method}` endpoint where `method` is the payment method requested (here `bolt11`).

```http
POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/melt/bolt11
```

⚠️ **Attention:** This call will block until the Lightning payment either succeeds or fails. This can take quite a long time in case the Lightning payment is slow. Make sure to **use no (or a very long) timeout when making this call**!

The wallet of `Alice` includes the following `PostMeltBolt11Request` data in its request

```json
{
  "quote": <str>,
  "inputs": <Array[Proof]>
}
```

Here, `quote` is the melt quote ID to be paid and `inputs` are the proofs with a total amount of at least `amount + fee_reserve` (see previous melt quote response).

The mint `Bob` then responds with a `PostMeltBolt11Response`:

```json
{
  "paid": <bool>,
  "payment_preimage": <str>
}
```
`paid` is a boolean indicating whether the payment was successful, and `payment_preimage` is the bol11 payment preimage. 

If `paid==true`, `Alice`'s wallet can delete the `inputs` from her database (or move them to a history). If `paid==false`, `Alice` can repeat the same request again until the payment is successful.

## Example

Request of `Alice` with curl:

```bash
curl -X POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/melt/bolt11 -d \
'{
  "quote": "od4CN5smMMS3K3QVHkbGGNCTxfcAIyIXeq8IrfhP",
  "inputs": [
    {
      "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
      "amount": 4,
      "secret": "429700b812a58436be2629af8731a31a37fce54dbf8cbbe90b3f8553179d23f5",
      "C": "03b01869f528337e161a6768b480fcf9f75fd248b649c382f5e352489fd84fd011",
    },
    {
      "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
      "amount": 8,
      "secret": "4f3155acef6481108fcf354f6d06e504ce8b441e617d30c88924991298cdbcad",
      "C": "0278ab1c1af35487a5ea903b693e96447b2034d0fd6bac529e753097743bf73ca9",
    }
  ]
}'
```

Response of `Bob`: 

```json
{
  "paid": true,
  "proof": "c5a1ae1f639e1f4a3872e81500fd028bece7bedc1152f740cba5c3417b748c1b"
}
```

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
