06.md, before:

NUT-06: Split tokens
==========================

`mandatory` `author: calle`

---

The split operation is the most important component of the Cashu system. A split operation consists of multiple inputs (`Proofs`) and outputs (`BlindedMessages`). Mints verify and invalidate the inputs and issue new promises (`BlindSignatures`).

The split operation can serve multiple use cases. First, `Alice` can use it to split her tokens to a target amount she needs to send to `Carol`, if she does not have the necessary amounts to compose the target amount in her wallet already. Second, `Carols`'s wallet can use it to receive tokens from `Alice` by sending them to the mint and receive new ones in return. 

The basic idea is that `Alice` sends the mint `Bob` a set of inputs `Proofs` and a set of outputs `BlindedMessages`. `Alice` can decide which distribution of amounts the inputs and outputs have as long as their sum is equal.

## 6.1 - Split to send

To make this more clear, we make an example of a typical case of sending tokens from `Alice` to `Carol`:

`Alice` has 64 satoshis in her wallet, composed of two tokens, one worth 32 sats and another two worth 16 sats. She wants to send `Carol` 40 sats but does not have the necessary tokens to combine them to reach the exact target amount of 40 sats. `Alice` requests a split from the mint. For that, she sends the mint `Bob` her tokens (`Proofs`) worth `[32, 16, 16]`. Since she wants to split her tokens at amount 40, she also supplies `BlindMessages` with the amounts `[32, 8, 16, 8]`. The mint then responds with `BlindSignatures` of the same amounts `[32, 8, 16, 8]`. Notice that the first two tokens can now be combined to 40 sats. The original tokens that `Alice` sent to `Bob` are now invalidated.

## 6.2 - Split to receive

Another case of how split can be useful becomes apparent if we follow up the example above where `Alice` split her tokens ready to be sent to `Carol`. `Carol` can receive these tokens using the same operation which means she invalidates the received tokens and requests new ones from `Bob`. Only if `Carol` redeems them for new tokens that only she can spend, `Alice` can't double-spend them anymore and this simple transaction can be considered settled. `Carol` requests a split of the tokens (`Proofs`) worth `[32, 8]` to receive back new tokens (of an arbitrary distribition) with the same total amount.

## Example

**Request** of `Alice`:

```http
POST https://mint.host:3338/split
```

With the data being of the form `PostSplitRequest`:

```json
{
  "proofs": <Proofs>,
  "outputs": <BlindedMessages>,
}
```

`BlindedMessages` is a list (array) of `BlindedMessage`s (see [NUT-0][00]).

With curl:

```bash
curl -X POST https://mint.host:3338/split -d \
{
  "proofs": 
    [
      {
        "id": "DSAl9nvvyfva",
        "amount": 2,
        "secret": "S+tDfc1Lfsrb06zaRdVTed6Izg",
        "C": "0242b0fb43804d8ba9a64ceef249ad7a60f42c15fe6d4907238b05e857527832a3"
      },
      {
      ...
      }
    ],
  "outputs":
    [
      {
        "amount": 2, 
        "B_": "02634a2c2b34bec9e8a4aba4361f6bf202d7fa2365379b0840afe249a7a9d71239"
      },
      {
      ...
      }
    ],
}
```

If successful, `Bob` will respond with a `PostSplitResponse` 

```python
{
  "promises": <BlindedSignatures>
}
```

`BlindedSignatures` is a list (array) of `BlindedSignature`'s (see [NUT-0][00]).

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
[13]: 13.md
[14]: 14.md
[15]: 15.md
[16]: 16.md
[17]: 17.md
[18]: 18.md
[19]: 19.md
[20]: 20.md

Commit message:

Clarify how clients should order lists of outputs to preserve privacy (#35)
* Clarify how clients should order lists of outputs to preserve privacy

* Apply suggestions from code review

accept and slightly reword

* Apply suggestions from code review

accept and slightly reword

---------

Co-authored-by: callebtc <93376500+callebtc@users.noreply.github.com>

06.md, after:

NUT-06: Split tokens
==========================

`mandatory` `author: calle`

---

The split operation is the most important component of the Cashu system. A split operation consists of multiple inputs (`Proofs`) and outputs (`BlindedMessages`). Mints verify and invalidate the inputs and issue new promises (`BlindSignatures`).

The split operation can serve multiple use cases. First, `Alice` can use it to split her tokens to a target amount she needs to send to `Carol`, if she does not have the necessary amounts to compose the target amount in her wallet already. Second, `Carols`'s wallet can use it to receive tokens from `Alice` by sending them to the mint and receive new ones in return. 

The basic idea is that `Alice` sends the mint `Bob` a set of inputs `Proofs` and a set of outputs `BlindedMessages`. `Alice` can decide which distribution of amounts the inputs and outputs have as long as their sum is equal.

## 6.1 - Split to send

To make this more clear, we make an example of a typical case of sending tokens from `Alice` to `Carol`:

`Alice` has 64 satoshis in her wallet, composed of two tokens, one worth 32 sats and another two worth 16 sats. She wants to send `Carol` 40 sats but does not have the necessary tokens to combine them to reach the exact target amount of 40 sats. `Alice` requests a split from the mint. For that, she sends the mint `Bob` her tokens (`Proofs`) worth `[16, 16, 32]` and asks for a split at amount 40. The mint will then return her new tokens with the amounts `[8, 8, 16, 32]`. Notice that the first two tokens can now be combined to 40 sats. The original tokens that `Alice` sent to `Bob` are now invalidated.

Note: In order to preserve privacy around the amount that a client might want to send to another user and keep the rest as change, the client **SHOULD** ensure that the list of `BlindedMessage`s is ordered by amount in ascending order. As an example of what to avoid, a request for tokens expressed like so: `[16, 8, 2, 64, 8]` might imply the client is building a payment for 26 sat; the client should instead order the list like so: `[2, 8, 8, 16, 64]` to mitigate this privacy leak to the mint.


## 6.2 - Split to receive

Another case of how split can be useful becomes apparent if we follow up the example above where `Alice` split her tokens ready to be sent to `Carol`. `Carol` can receive these tokens using the same operation which means she invalidates the received tokens and requests new ones from `Bob`. Only if `Carol` redeems them for new tokens that only she can spend, `Alice` can't double-spend them anymore and this simple transaction can be considered settled. `Carol` requests a split of the tokens (`Proofs`) worth `[32, 8]` to receive back new tokens (of an arbitrary distribition) with the same total amount.

## Example

**Request** of `Alice`:

```http
POST https://mint.host:3338/split
```

With the data being of the form `PostSplitRequest`:

```json
{
  "proofs": <Proofs>,
  "outputs": <BlindedMessages>,
}
```

`BlindedMessages` is a list (array) of `BlindedMessage`s (see [NUT-0][00]).

With curl:

```bash
curl -X POST https://mint.host:3338/split -d \
{
  "proofs": 
    [
      {
        "id": "DSAl9nvvyfva",
        "amount": 2,
        "secret": "S+tDfc1Lfsrb06zaRdVTed6Izg",
        "C": "0242b0fb43804d8ba9a64ceef249ad7a60f42c15fe6d4907238b05e857527832a3"
      },
      {
      ...
      }
    ],
  "outputs":
    [
      {
        "amount": 2, 
        "B_": "02634a2c2b34bec9e8a4aba4361f6bf202d7fa2365379b0840afe249a7a9d71239"
      },
      {
      ...
      }
    ],
}
```

If successful, `Bob` will respond with a `PostSplitResponse` 

```python
{
  "promises": <BlindedSignatures>
}
```

`BlindedSignatures` is a list (array) of `BlindedSignature`'s (see [NUT-0][00]).

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
[13]: 13.md
[14]: 14.md
[15]: 15.md
[16]: 16.md
[17]: 17.md
[18]: 18.md
[19]: 19.md
[20]: 20.md
