07.md, before:

NUT-07: Token state check
==========================

`optional` `author: calle` `author: tb`

---

With the token state check, wallets can ask the mint whether a specific proof is already spent (`spendable`) and whether it is in-flight in a transaction (`pending`). Both of these attributes are returned as separated lists of booleans.

### Token states 

A wallet can internally represent the combination of these booleans the proof's `state`. A proof can either be `live` (`spendable == true && pending == false`), `burned` (`spendable == false && pending == (true || false)`), or `in-flight` (`spendable == true && pending == true`).

- A proof is `live` if it has been minted but not spent yet.
- A proof is `burned` if it has been redeemed and its secret is in the list of spent secrets of the mint.
- A proof is `in-flight` if it is being processed in a transaction (in an ongoing payment). An `in-flight` proof cannot be used in another transaction until it is `live` again.

**Important:** Before deleting spent proofs from their database, wallets **MUST** check if the proof is still `spendable` to make sure that they don't delete an unspent proof by accident.

**Note:** Mints **MUST** remember which proofs are currently `pending` to avoid reuse of the same token in multiple concurrent transactions. This can be achieved with a mutex whose key is the proof's `secret`.

## Use cases

#### Example 1: Ecash transaction 
When `Alice` prepares a token to be sent to `Carol`, she can mark these tokens in her database as *pending*. She can then, periodically or upon user input, check with the mint if the token is still spendable (mint returns `True` for `spendable`) or whether it has been redeemed by `Carol` already (mint returns `False` for `spendable`). If the proof is not spendable anymore (and, thus, has been redeemed by `Carol`), she can safely delete the proof from her database.

#### Example 2: Lightning payments 
If `Alice` pays a very slow Lightning invoice (for example a HODL invoice) and closes her wallet in the meantime, the next time she comes online, she can check all proof marked as *pending* in her database to determine, whether the payment is still in flight (mint returns `True` for `pending` and `spendable`), it has succeeded (mint returns `False` for `pending` and `spendable`), or it has failed (mint returns `False` for `pending` and `True` for `spendable`).

## Example

**Request** of `Alice`:

```http
POST https://mint.host:3338/check
```

With the data being of the form `CheckStateRequest`:

```json
{
  "proofs": Proofs
}
```

`Proofs` is a list (array) of `Proof`s (see [NUT-0][00]). `Alice` **CAN** provide a full `Proof` but **MUST** provide at least the `secret` (which is the only thing that `Bob` needs to check whether the token has been spent).

With curl:

```bash
curl -X POST https://mint.host:3338/check -d \
{
  "proofs": 
    [
      {
        "secret": "S+tDfc1Lfsrb06zaRdVTed6Izg"
      },
      {
      ...
      }
    ]
}
```
**Response** of `Bob`:

`Bob` will respond with a `CheckStateResponse` 

```json
{
  "spendable": Array[bool],
  "pending": Array[bool]
}
```

Where `[bool]` is an array of booleans indicating whether the provided `Proof` is still spendable or pending. 

**Important:** The list of booleans **MUST** be in the same order as the proofs provided by `Alice` in the request.

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
[13]: 13.md
[14]: 14.md
[15]: 15.md
[16]: 16.md
[17]: 17.md
[18]: 18.md
[19]: 19.md
[20]: 20.md

Commit message:

Cashu `v1` – The Great Cleanup (#55)
* begin: great cleanup

* keyset id no base64

* new keyset ids

* updates

* concatenate byte array

* 16->14

* add id to BlindedMessage

* adjust nut-00 and nut-01 to suggestions

* correct keyset ids and remove mint key generation

* mint quote

* reorder NUTs

* fix split and keysets

* update NUT-04

* fix nut-05

* add 07

* fix 07

* fix 09

* fix 09

* higlight alice carol and bob

* keysets

* typos

* NUT-0 -> NUT-00

* remove dead links in documents

* keyset ID lower-case hex

* 32-byte hex for secrets

* split -> swap

* fix minor errors in P2PK

* add expiry to melt and mint quotes, add endpoints for checking quote state

* PostMeltBolt11Response: proof -> payment_preimage

* adjust more reviewer comments

* address comments on NUT-01

* NUT-00: define error response

* add (method, unit) pairs to info endpoint, move to NUT-06 and make mandatory

* settings in info response

* remove authors from all documents

* add settings to NUT-04 and NUT-05

* swap rename to 03

* tokens -> ecash

* fix json

* fix typos

* old /keys to /v1/keys

* adjust language for /v1/check

* language

* add link to legacy API to README.md

* empty string to dict

* setting keys to integers

07.md, after:

NUT-07: Token state check
==========================

`optional`

---

With the token state check, wallets can ask the mint whether a specific proof is already spent (`spendable`) and whether it is in-flight in a transaction (`pending`). Both of these attributes are returned as separate lists of booleans.

### Token states 

A wallet can internally represent the combination of these booleans the proof's `state`. A proof can either be `live` (`spendable == true && pending == false`), `burned` (`spendable == false && pending == (true || false)`), or `in-flight` (`spendable == true && pending == true`).

- A proof is `live` if it has been minted but not spent yet.
- A proof is `burned` if it has been redeemed and its secret is in the list of spent secrets of the mint.
- A proof is `in-flight` if it is being processed in a transaction (in an ongoing payment). An `in-flight` proof cannot be used in another transaction until it is `live` again.

**Note:** Before deleting spent proofs from their database, wallets can check if the proof is still `spendable` to make sure that they don't accidentally delete an unspent proof. Beware that this behavior can make it easier for the mint to correlate the sender to the receiver.

**Important:** Mints **MUST** remember which proofs are currently `pending` to avoid reuse of the same token in multiple concurrent transactions. This can be achieved with for example mutex lock whose key is the proof's `secret`.

## Use cases

#### Example 1: Ecash transaction 
When `Alice` prepares a token to be sent to `Carol`, she can mark these tokens in her database as *pending*. She can then, periodically or upon user input, check with the mint if the token is still spendable (mint returns `True` for `spendable`) or whether it has been redeemed by `Carol` already (mint returns `False` for `spendable`). If the proof is not spendable anymore (and, thus, has been redeemed by `Carol`), she can safely delete the proof from her database.

#### Example 2: Lightning payments 
If `Alice`'s melt operation takes a long time to complete (for example if she requests a very slow Lightning payment) and she closes her wallet in the meantime, the next time she comes online, she can check all proofs marked as *pending* in her database to determine whether the payment is still in flight (mint returns `True` for `pending` and `spendable`), it has succeeded (mint returns `False` for `pending` and `spendable`), or it has failed (mint returns `False` for `pending` and `True` for `spendable`).

## Example

**Request** of `Alice`:

```http
POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/check
```

With the data being of the form `CheckStateRequest`:

```json
{
  "proofs": Proofs
}
```

`Proofs` is a list (array) of `Proof`s (see [NUT-00][00]). `Alice` **CAN** provide a full `Proof` but **MUST** provide at least the `secret` (which is the only thing that `Bob` needs to check whether the token has been spent).

With curl:

```bash
curl -X POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/check -d \
{
  "proofs": 
    [
      {
        "secret": "429700b812a58436be2629af8731a31a37fce54dbf8cbbe90b3f8553179d23f5"
      },
      ...
    ]
}
```
**Response** of `Bob`:

`Bob` will respond with a `CheckStateResponse` 

```json
{
  "spendable": Array[bool],
  "pending": Array[bool]
}
```

Where `[bool]` is an array of booleans indicating whether the provided `Proof` is still spendable or pending. 

**Important:** The list of booleans **MUST** be in the same order as the proofs provided by `Alice` in the request.

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
