09.md, before:

NUT-09: Deterministic Secrets
==========================

`optional`

---

An ordinary Cashu `Proof` is made up from a random `secret` and `C`, the blind signature from the mint. The `secret` being randomly generated is a problem, since it can not be recreated if the `secret` is lost. This makes backing-up ecash cumbersome, since `Proofs` would need to be backed up after every transaction.

Instead of choosing `secrets` randomly, we can derive them deterministically from a seed phrase (`mnemonic`), allowing us to dynamically restore lost ecash with the mints help.

## Wallet

The wallet is doing the heavy lifting when creating restorable ecash. In fact, the mint only learns that a wallet has been using determinsitic `secrets` once a wallet kicks off the restore process. Before that, it looks like any other ecash.

### Overwiew

In order to create ecash that can be restored from seedphrase, the following components are needed:

* `mnemonic`: a [BIP39](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039.mediawiki) seed phrase
* `derivation path`: a [BIP32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki) derivation path
* `mint`/`keysetIDs`: the `mint` url and corresponding `keysetIDs`. The `keysetID` is used as the first variable in the `derivation path`
* `counter`: a wallet internal `counter` for each keyset, acting as the second variable in the `derivation path`

  
### Create restorable ecash

To create restorable ecash, the wallet must first be initialized with a seed:

1. Create a random `mnemonic`. The same `mnemonic` can be used for all mints and keysets (one per wallet)
2. Derive seed from `mnemonic`. (KDF)

The wallet must then initialize a `counter` for each mint/keyset. The counter will have to update for each new secret that is derived, and must be persisted in the wallet.


To create `BlindedMessages` deterministically, the standard cashu derivation path is used, in combination with the variables `keysetID` and `counter`:


1. get `HDKey` from master seed
2. construct the derivation path for both `secrets` and blinding factors (`r`)

```javascript
secret_derivation_path = `m/129372'/0'/${keysetID}'/${counter}'/0`
r_derivation_path = `m/129372'/0'/${keysetID}'/${counter}'/1`
```

note that `m/129372'/0'/` is the standard derivation path for cashu wallets, and all wallets should use this path. 

3. derive new private keys from `HDkey` using the respective `derivation paths`. The derived private keys are directly used as the `secret` or the blinding factor `r`
4. update the `counter`

The `counter` must always be updated after successfully creating ecash. If it is not updated, we run the risk to mint the same ecash token twice. 
If the mint does not check for already minted tokens, it will allow to create the token twice, but it will not allow to spend it twice. This can result in lost ecash.
The best case is, the mint does not allow splitting to already minted ecash, by checking if the blinded message has already been signed before allowing a `split` operation. 

### Restore

1. The restore process starts by the wallet prompting the user for the `mnemonic`.
2. The wallet also needs to prompt the user for the `mints` where the user wants to restore ecash.
3. Next, the wallet needs to reproduce the creation of the `BlindedMessages`. This process is exactly the same as outlined in "create restorable ecash". The only difference is, that instead of creating 1 `BlindedMessage` the wallet creates `n` for each `keysetID`
4. The wallet then needs to match with the mint if any `BlindedMessages` that were produced were signed by the mint. The wallet can request the `BlindSignatures` by calling the mints `/restore` endpoint (there are 2 main ways of matching, `quick-but-doxxing`, `slow-but-private`. more about this later)
5. If there are `BlindSignatures` found up until `counter` = `n` we can repeat the process by creating `BlindedMessages` for `counters` = `n` to `2n` and so on, searching the next batch for `BlindSignatures`
6. After not finding any more matches, `BlindSignatures` must be matched with the corresponding `BlindedMessages`, and consequently unblinded to fully restore the ecash as `Proofs`
7. The restored `Proofs` must then finally be checked if they have already been spent. This can be done by calling `/check` on the mint.

## Mint

To enable `restore` on the mint (`quick-but-doxxing`), the mint must implement the follwing:

- Store all `BlindedMessages` and corresponding `BlindSignatures`
- Expose `BlindSignatures` at `/restore` endpoint
- disallow `splitting` into already created `BlindSignatures` (must be unique)

the `/restore` endpoint consumes:

```json
{
  "outputs": <Array[BlindedMessages]>
}
```

and provides (lists in same order):

```json
{
  "outputs": <Array[BlindedMessages]>
  "promises": <Array[BlindSignatures]>
}
```

This scheme will let the mint know about all BlindedMessages created by the wallet. This is quite a big information leak and definitely comes with privacy drawbacks.


[concept]
Alternatively, the mint can enable a database dump of all `BlindedMessages` and corresponding `BlindSignatures` (`slow-but-private`). This will allow the wallet to match the signatures locally without leaking information, but it will take longer since the mints entire database must be downloaded first.

## Illustrations

Create restorable ecash scheme
![image](https://github.com/gandlafbtc/nuts/assets/123852829/f6396957-e48b-4747-b5b8-00b7de5cb7af)

Restore ecash scheme `quick-but-doxxing`
![image](https://github.com/gandlafbtc/nuts/assets/123852829/3620ce4c-98f3-4c1e-8969-280f2db09bdf)

Restore ecash scheme `slow-but-private`
![image](https://github.com/gandlafbtc/nuts/assets/123852829/da3b7ce2-38a8-47d4-be83-dfd39709cf79)


[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md

Commit message:

coin type clarify
Co-authored-by: Angus Pearson <angus@toaster.cc>

09.md, after:

NUT-09: Deterministic Secrets
==========================

`optional`

---

An ordinary Cashu `Proof` is made up from a random `secret` and `C`, the blind signature from the mint. The `secret` being randomly generated is a problem, since it can not be recreated if the `secret` is lost. This makes backing-up ecash cumbersome, since `Proofs` would need to be backed up after every transaction.

Instead of choosing `secrets` randomly, we can derive them deterministically from a seed phrase (`mnemonic`), allowing us to dynamically restore lost ecash with the mints help.

## Wallet

The wallet is doing the heavy lifting when creating restorable ecash. In fact, the mint only learns that a wallet has been using determinsitic `secrets` once a wallet kicks off the restore process. Before that, it looks like any other ecash.

### Overwiew

In order to create ecash that can be restored from seedphrase, the following components are needed:

* `mnemonic`: a [BIP39](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039.mediawiki) seed phrase
* `derivation path`: a [BIP32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki) derivation path
* `mint`/`keysetIDs`: the `mint` url and corresponding `keysetIDs`. The `keysetID` is used as the first variable in the `derivation path`
* `counter`: a wallet internal `counter` for each keyset, acting as the second variable in the `derivation path`

  
### Create restorable ecash

To create restorable ecash, the wallet must first be initialized with a seed:

1. Create a random `mnemonic`. The same `mnemonic` can be used for all mints and keysets (one per wallet)
2. Derive seed from `mnemonic`. (KDF)

The wallet must then initialize a `counter` for each mint/keyset. The counter will have to update for each new secret that is derived, and must be persisted in the wallet.


To create `BlindedMessages` deterministically, the standard cashu derivation path is used, in combination with the variables `keysetID` and `counter`:


1. get `HDKey` from master seed
2. construct the derivation path for both `secrets` and blinding factors (`r`)

```javascript
secret_derivation_path = `m/129372'/0'/${keysetID}'/${counter}'/0`
r_derivation_path = `m/129372'/0'/${keysetID}'/${counter}'/1`
```

Note that `m/129372'/0'/` is the standard derivation path for cashu wallets, and all wallets should use this path. Note the `0'/` is *not* a BIP-44 coin type indicating Bitcoin -- Cashu tokens in other denominations or currencies should still always use this path.

3. derive new private keys from `HDkey` using the respective `derivation paths`. The derived private keys are directly used as the `secret` or the blinding factor `r`
4. update the `counter`

The `counter` must always be updated after successfully creating ecash. If it is not updated, we run the risk to mint the same ecash token twice. 
If the mint does not check for already minted tokens, it will allow to create the token twice, but it will not allow to spend it twice. This can result in lost ecash.
The best case is, the mint does not allow splitting to already minted ecash, by checking if the blinded message has already been signed before allowing a `split` operation. 

### Restore

1. The restore process starts by the wallet prompting the user for the `mnemonic`.
2. The wallet also needs to prompt the user for the `mints` where the user wants to restore ecash.
3. Next, the wallet needs to reproduce the creation of the `BlindedMessages`. This process is exactly the same as outlined in "create restorable ecash". The only difference is, that instead of creating 1 `BlindedMessage` the wallet creates `n` for each `keysetID`
4. The wallet then needs to match with the mint if any `BlindedMessages` that were produced were signed by the mint. The wallet can request the `BlindSignatures` by calling the mints `/restore` endpoint (there are 2 main ways of matching, `quick-but-doxxing`, `slow-but-private`. more about this later)
5. If there are `BlindSignatures` found up until `counter` = `n` we can repeat the process by creating `BlindedMessages` for `counters` = `n` to `2n` and so on, searching the next batch for `BlindSignatures`
6. After not finding any more matches, `BlindSignatures` must be matched with the corresponding `BlindedMessages`, and consequently unblinded to fully restore the ecash as `Proofs`
7. The restored `Proofs` must then finally be checked if they have already been spent. This can be done by calling `/check` on the mint.

## Mint

To enable `restore` on the mint (`quick-but-doxxing`), the mint must implement the follwing:

- Store all `BlindedMessages` and corresponding `BlindSignatures`
- Expose `BlindSignatures` at `/restore` endpoint
- disallow `splitting` into already created `BlindSignatures` (must be unique)

the `/restore` endpoint consumes:

```json
{
  "outputs": <Array[BlindedMessages]>
}
```

and provides (lists in same order):

```json
{
  "outputs": <Array[BlindedMessages]>
  "promises": <Array[BlindSignatures]>
}
```

This scheme will let the mint know about all BlindedMessages created by the wallet. This is quite a big information leak and definitely comes with privacy drawbacks.


[concept]
Alternatively, the mint can enable a database dump of all `BlindedMessages` and corresponding `BlindSignatures` (`slow-but-private`). This will allow the wallet to match the signatures locally without leaking information, but it will take longer since the mints entire database must be downloaded first.

## Illustrations

Create restorable ecash scheme
![image](https://github.com/gandlafbtc/nuts/assets/123852829/f6396957-e48b-4747-b5b8-00b7de5cb7af)

Restore ecash scheme `quick-but-doxxing`
![image](https://github.com/gandlafbtc/nuts/assets/123852829/3620ce4c-98f3-4c1e-8969-280f2db09bdf)

Restore ecash scheme `slow-but-private`
![image](https://github.com/gandlafbtc/nuts/assets/123852829/da3b7ce2-38a8-47d4-be83-dfd39709cf79)


[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
