10.md, before:

# NUT-10: Spending conditions

`optional`

`used in: NUT-11, NUT-14`

---

An ordinary ecash token is a set of `Proofs` each with a random string `secret`. To spend such a token in a [swap][03] or a [melt][05] operation, wallets include `proofs` in their request each with a unique `secret`. To autorize a transaction, the mint requires that the `secret` has not been seen before. This is the most fundamental spending condition in Cashu, which ensures that a token can't be double-spent.

In this NUT, we define a well-known format of `secret` that can be used to express more complex spending conditions. These conditions need to be met before the mint authorizes a transaction. Note that the specific type of spending condition is not part of this document but will be explained in other documents. Here, we describe the structure of `secret` which is expressed as a JSON `Secret` with a specific format.

Spending conditions are enforced by the mint which means that, upon encountering a `Proof` where `Proof.secret` can be parsed into the well-known format, the mint can require additional conditions to be met.

Caution: If the mint does not support spending conditions or a specific `kind` of spending condition, proofs may be treated as a regular anyone-can-spend tokens. Applications need to make sure to check whether the mint supports a specific `kind` of spending condition by checking the mint's [info][06] endpoint.

## Basic components

An ecash transaction, i.e., a [swap][03] or a [melt][05] operation, with a spending condition consists of the following components:

- Inputs referring to the `Proofs` being spent
- `Secret` containing the rules for unlocking a `Proof`
- Additional witness data satisfying the unlock conditions such as signatures
- Outputs referring to the `BlindMessages` with new unlock conditions to which the `Proofs` are spent to

Spending conditions are defined for each individual `Proof` and not on a transaction level that can consist of multiple `Proofs`. Similarly, spending conditions must be satisfied by providing signatures or additional witness data for each `Proof` separately. For a transaction to be valid, all `Proofs` in that transaction must be unlocked successfully.

New `Secret`s of the outputs to which the inputs are spent to are provided as `BlindMessages` which means that they are blind-signed and not visible to the mint until they are actually spent.

## Well-known Secret

Spending conditions are expressed in a well-known secret format that is revealed to the mint when spending (unlocking) a token, not when the token is minted (locked). The mint parses each `Proof`'s `secret`. If it can deserialize it into the following format it executes additional spending conditions that are further specified in additional NUTs.

The well-known `Secret` stored in `Proof.secret` is a JSON of the format:

```json
[
kind <str>,
  {
    "nonce": <str>,
    "data": <str>,
    "tags": [[ "key", "value1", "value2", ...],  ... ], // (optional)
  }
]
```

- `kind` is the kind of the spending condition
- `nonce` is a unique random string
- `data` expresses the spending condition specific to each kind
- `tags` hold additional data committed to and can be used for feature extensions

## Examples

Example use cases of this secret format are

- [NUT-11][11]: Pay-to-Public-Key (P2PK)
- [NUT-14][14]: Hashed Timelock Contracts (HTLCs)

## Mint info setting

The [NUT-06][06] `MintMethodSetting` indicates support for this feature:

```json
{
  "10": {
    "supported": true
  }
}
```

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
[14]: 14.md

Commit message:

fixed size vanilla secret + case-by-case length well-known secrets.

10.md, after:

# NUT-10: Spending conditions

`optional`

`used in: NUT-11, NUT-14`

---

An ordinary ecash token is a set of `Proofs` each with a random string `secret`. To spend such a token in a [swap][03] or a [melt][05] operation, wallets include `proofs` in their request each with a unique `secret`. To autorize a transaction, the mint requires that the `secret` has not been seen before. This is the most fundamental spending condition in Cashu, which ensures that a token can't be double-spent.

In this NUT, we define a well-known format of `secret` that can be used to express more complex spending conditions. These conditions need to be met before the mint authorizes a transaction. Note that the specific type of spending condition is not part of this document but will be explained in other documents. Here, we describe the structure of `secret` which is expressed as a JSON `Secret` with a specific format.

Spending conditions are enforced by the mint which means that, upon encountering a `Proof` where `Proof.secret` can be parsed into the well-known format, the mint can require additional conditions to be met.

Caution: If the mint does not support spending conditions or a specific `kind` of spending condition, proofs may be treated as a regular anyone-can-spend tokens. Applications need to make sure to check whether the mint supports a specific `kind` of spending condition by checking the mint's [info][06] endpoint.

## Basic components

An ecash transaction, i.e., a [swap][03] or a [melt][05] operation, with a spending condition consists of the following components:

- Inputs referring to the `Proofs` being spent
- `Secret` containing the rules for unlocking a `Proof`
- Additional witness data satisfying the unlock conditions such as signatures
- Outputs referring to the `BlindMessages` with new unlock conditions to which the `Proofs` are spent to

Spending conditions are defined for each individual `Proof` and not on a transaction level that can consist of multiple `Proofs`. Similarly, spending conditions must be satisfied by providing signatures or additional witness data for each `Proof` separately. For a transaction to be valid, all `Proofs` in that transaction must be unlocked successfully.

New `Secret`s of the outputs to which the inputs are spent to are provided as `BlindMessages` which means that they are blind-signed and not visible to the mint until they are actually spent.

## Well-known Secret

Spending conditions are expressed in a well-known secret format that is revealed to the mint when spending (unlocking) a token, not when the token is minted (locked). The mint parses each `Proof`'s `secret`. If it can deserialize it into the following format it executes additional spending conditions that are further specified in additional NUTs.

The well-known `Secret` stored in `Proof.secret` is a JSON of the format:

```json
[
kind <str>,
  {
    "nonce": <str>,
    "data": <str>,
    "tags": [[ "key", "value1", "value2", ...],  ... ], // (optional)
  }
]
```

- `kind` is the kind of the spending condition
- `nonce` is a unique random string
- `data` expresses the spending condition specific to each kind
- `tags` hold additional data committed to and can be used for feature extensions

Since it contains structured data, `Proof.secret` may be longer than the 64 hex character limit imposed in [NUT-00][00]. However, well-known `Secret` is still subject to contraints, which are decided on a case-by-case basis depending on the use case.

## Examples

Example use cases of this secret format are

- [NUT-11][11]: Pay-to-Public-Key (P2PK)
- [NUT-14][14]: Hashed Timelock Contracts (HTLCs)

## Mint info setting

The [NUT-06][06] `MintMethodSetting` indicates support for this feature:

```json
{
  "10": {
    "supported": true
  }
}
```

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
[14]: 14.md
