11.md, before:

NUT-11: Pay to Public Key (P2PK)
==========================

`optional`

---

This NUT describes Pay-to-Public-Key (P2PK) which is one kind of spending condition based on [NUT-10][10]'s well-known `Secret`. Using P2PK, we can lock ecash tokens to a receiver's ECC public key and require a Schnorr signature with the corresponding private key to unlock the ecash. The spending condition is enforced by the mint.

## Pay-to-Pubkey

[NUT-10][10] Secret `kind: P2PK`

If for a `Proof`, `Proof.secret` is a `Secret` of kind `P2PK`, the proof must be unlocked by providing a witness `Proof.witness` and one or more valid signatures in the array `Proof.witness.signatures`. 

In the basic case, when spending a locked token, the mint requires one valid Schnorr signature in `Proof.witness.signatures` on `Proof.secret` by the public key in `Proof.Secret.data`. 

To give a concrete example of the basic case, to mint a locked token we first create a P2PK `Secret` that reads:
```json
[
"P2PK", 
  {
    "nonce": "5d11913ee0f92fefdc82a6764fd2457a",
    "data": "026562efcfadc8e86d44da6a8adf80633d974302e62c850774db1fb36ff4cc7198",
  }
]
```
Here, `Secret.data` is the public key of the recipient of the locked ecash. We serialize this `Secret` to a string in `Proof.secret` and get a blind signature by the mint that is stored in `Proof.C` (see [NUT-03][03]]). 

The recipient who owns the private key of the public key `Secret.data` can spend this proof by providing a signature on the serialized `Proof.secret` that is added to `Proof.witness.signatures`:

```json
{
  "amount": 8, 
  "secret": '["P2PK",{"nonce": "5d11913ee0f92fefdc82a6764fd2457a","data": "026562efcfadc8e86d44da6a8adf80633d974302e62c850774db1fb36ff4cc7198",}]',
  "C": "02250a37a56b78e66674f7f063e6abd3d9345f8761fb90cac0293108910a8c27a3",
  "id": "1cCNIAZ2X/w1",
  "witness": {
    "signatures":
        [
          "c43d0090be59340a6364dc1340876211f2173d6a21c391115adf097adb6ea0a3ddbe7fd81b4677281decc77be09c0359faa77416025130e487f8b9169eb0c609"
        ]
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Signature scheme

To spend a token locked with `P2PK`, the spender needs to include signatures in the spent proofs. We use `libsecp256k1`'s serialized 64 byte Schnorr signatures on the SHA256 hash of the message to sign. The message to sign is the field `Proof.secret` in the inputs. If indicated by `Secret.tags.sigflag` in the inputs, outputs might also require signatures on the message `BlindedMessage.B_`. 

An ecash spending operation like [swap][03]] and [melt][05]] can have multiple inputs and outputs. If we have more than one input or output, we provide signatures in each `Proof` and `BlindedMessage` individually. The inputs are the `Proofs` provided in the `inputs` field and the outputs are the `BlindedMessages` in the `outputs` field in the request body (see `PostMeltRequest` in [NUT-05][05] and `PostSwapRequest` in [NUT-03][03]). 

### Tags
More complex spending conditions can be defined in the tags in `Proof.tags`. All tags are optional. Tags are arrays with two or more strings being `["key", "value1", "value2", ...]`.

Supported tags are:

- `sigflag: <str>` determines whether outputs have to be signed as well
- `n_sigs: <int>` specifies the minimum number of valid signatures expected
- `pubkeys: <hex_str>` are additional public keys that can provide signatures (*allows multiple entries*)
- `locktime: <int>` is the Unix timestamp of when the lock expires
- `refund: <hex_str>` are optional refund public keys that can exclusively spend after `locktime` (*allows multiple entries*)

**Note:** The tag serialization type is `[<str>, <str>, ...]` but some tag values are `int`. Wallets and mints must cast types appropriately for de/serialization.

#### Signature flags
Signature flags are defined in the tag `Secret.tags['sigflag']`. Currently, there are two signature flags.


- `SIG_INPUTS` requires valid signatures on all inputs. It is the default signature flag and will be applied even if the `sigflag` tag is absent.
- `SIG_ALL` requires valid signatures on all inputs and on all outputs.

The signature flag `SIG_ALL` is enforced if at least one of the `Proofs` have the flag `SIG_ALL`. Otherwise, `SIG_INPUTS` is enforced.

#### Signature

Signatures must be provided in the field `Proof.signatures` for each `Proof` which is an input. If the signature flags `sigflag` of all `Proofs` is `SIG_ALL`, signatures must also be provided for every output in its field `BlindedMessage.witness.signatures`.

##### Signed inputs
A `Proof` (an input) with a signature `P2PKWitness.signatures` on `secret` is the JSON (see [NUT-00][00]):
```json
{
  "amount": <int>, 
  "secret": <str>,
  "C": <hex_str>,
  "id": <str>,
  "witness": <P2PKWitness | str> // Signatures on "secret"
}
```

##### Signed outputs
A `BlindedMessage` (an output) with a signature `P2PKWitness.signatures` on `B_` is the JSON (see [NUT-00][00]):

```json
{
  "amount": int,
  "B_": hex_str,
  "witness": <P2PKWitness | str> // Signatures on "B_"
}
```

##### Witness format

`P2PKWitness` is a serialized JSON of the form
```json
{
  "signatures": [<str>, ...] // Array! 
}
```

### Multisig
If the tag `n_sigs` is a positive integer, the mint will also consider signatures from public keys specified in the `pubkeys` tag additional to the public key in `Secret.data`. If the number of valid signatures is greater or equal to the number specified in `n_sigs`, the transaction is valid.

Expressed as an "n-of-m" scheme, `n = n_sigs` is the number of required signatures and `m = 1 ("data" field) + len(pubkeys tag)` is the number of public keys that could sign.

### Locktime
If the tag `locktime` is the unix time and the mint's local clock is greater than `locktime`, the `Proof` becomes spendable by anyone, except if the following condition is also true. Note: A `Proof` is considered spendable by anyone if it only requires a `secret` and a valid signature `C` to be spent (which is the default case).

#### Refund public keys
If the `locktime` is in the past and a tag `refund` is present, the `Proof` is spendable only if a valid signature by one of the the `refund` pubkeys is provided in `Proof.witness.signatures` and, depending on the signature flag, in `BlindedMessage.witness.signatures`.

#### Complex Example

This is an example `secret` that locks a `Proof` with a Pay-to-Pubkey (P2PK) condition that requires 2-of-3 signatures from the public keys in the `data` field and the `pubkeys` tag. If the `timelock` has passed, the `Proof` becomes spendable with a single signature from the public key in the `refund` tag. The signature flag `sigflag` indicates that signatures are necessary on the `inputs` and the `outputs` of a transaction.

```json
[
  "P2PK",
  {
    "nonce": "da62796403af76c80cd6ce9153ed3746",
    "data": "033281c37677ea273eb7183b783067f5244933ef78d8c3f15b1a77cb246099c26e",
    "tags": [
      [
        "sigflag",
        "SIG_ALL"
      ], 
      [
        "n_sigs",
        "2"
      ], 
      [
        "locktime",
        "1689418329"
      ],                   
      [
        "refund",
        "033281c37677ea273eb7183b783067f5244933ef78d8c3f15b1a77cb246099c26e"
      ],      
      [
        "pubkeys",
        "02698c4e2b5f9534cd0687d87513c759790cf829aa5739184a3e3735471fbda904",
        "023192200a0cfd3867e48eb63b03ff599c7e46c8f4e41146b2d281173ca6c50c54"
      ],
    ]
  }
]
```

## Use cases

The following use cases are unlocked using P2PK:
- Publicly post locked ecash that can only be redeemed by the intended receiver
- Final offline-receiver payments that can't be double-spent when combined with an offline signature check mechanism like DLEQ proofs
- Receiver of locked ecash can defer and batch multiple mint round trips for receiving proofs (requires DLEQ)
- Ecash that is owned by multiple people via the multisignature abilities
- Atomic swaps when used in combination with the locktime feature

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md

Commit message:

P2PK: clarify that outputs are signed as bytes

11.md, after:

NUT-11: Pay to Public Key (P2PK)
==========================

`optional`

---

This NUT describes Pay-to-Public-Key (P2PK) which is one kind of spending condition based on [NUT-10][10]'s well-known `Secret`. Using P2PK, we can lock ecash tokens to a receiver's ECC public key and require a Schnorr signature with the corresponding private key to unlock the ecash. The spending condition is enforced by the mint.

## Pay-to-Pubkey

[NUT-10][10] Secret `kind: P2PK`

If for a `Proof`, `Proof.secret` is a `Secret` of kind `P2PK`, the proof must be unlocked by providing a witness `Proof.witness` and one or more valid signatures in the array `Proof.witness.signatures`. 

In the basic case, when spending a locked token, the mint requires one valid Schnorr signature in `Proof.witness.signatures` on `Proof.secret` by the public key in `Proof.Secret.data`. 

To give a concrete example of the basic case, to mint a locked token we first create a P2PK `Secret` that reads:
```json
[
"P2PK", 
  {
    "nonce": "5d11913ee0f92fefdc82a6764fd2457a",
    "data": "026562efcfadc8e86d44da6a8adf80633d974302e62c850774db1fb36ff4cc7198",
  }
]
```
Here, `Secret.data` is the public key of the recipient of the locked ecash. We serialize this `Secret` to a string in `Proof.secret` and get a blind signature by the mint that is stored in `Proof.C` (see [NUT-03][03]]). 

The recipient who owns the private key of the public key `Secret.data` can spend this proof by providing a signature on the serialized `Proof.secret` string that is then added to `Proof.witness.signatures`:

```json
{
  "amount": 8, 
  "secret": '["P2PK",{"nonce": "5d11913ee0f92fefdc82a6764fd2457a","data": "026562efcfadc8e86d44da6a8adf80633d974302e62c850774db1fb36ff4cc7198",}]',
  "C": "02250a37a56b78e66674f7f063e6abd3d9345f8761fb90cac0293108910a8c27a3",
  "id": "1cCNIAZ2X/w1",
  "witness": {
    "signatures":
        [
          "c43d0090be59340a6364dc1340876211f2173d6a21c391115adf097adb6ea0a3ddbe7fd81b4677281decc77be09c0359faa77416025130e487f8b9169eb0c609"
        ]
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Signature scheme

To spend a token locked with `P2PK`, the spender needs to include signatures in the spent proofs. We use `libsecp256k1`'s serialized 64 byte Schnorr signatures on the SHA256 hash of the message to sign. The message to sign is the field `Proof.secret` in the inputs. If indicated by `Secret.tags.sigflag` in the inputs, outputs might also require signatures on the message `BlindedMessage.B_`. 

An ecash spending operation like [swap][03]] and [melt][05]] can have multiple inputs and outputs. If we have more than one input or output, we provide signatures in each `Proof` and `BlindedMessage` individually. The inputs are the `Proofs` provided in the `inputs` field and the outputs are the `BlindedMessages` in the `outputs` field in the request body (see `PostMeltRequest` in [NUT-05][05] and `PostSwapRequest` in [NUT-03][03]). 

### Tags
More complex spending conditions can be defined in the tags in `Proof.tags`. All tags are optional. Tags are arrays with two or more strings being `["key", "value1", "value2", ...]`.

Supported tags are:

- `sigflag: <str>` determines whether outputs have to be signed as well
- `n_sigs: <int>` specifies the minimum number of valid signatures expected
- `pubkeys: <hex_str>` are additional public keys that can provide signatures (*allows multiple entries*)
- `locktime: <int>` is the Unix timestamp of when the lock expires
- `refund: <hex_str>` are optional refund public keys that can exclusively spend after `locktime` (*allows multiple entries*)

**Note:** The tag serialization type is `[<str>, <str>, ...]` but some tag values are `int`. Wallets and mints must cast types appropriately for de/serialization.

#### Signature flags
Signature flags are defined in the tag `Secret.tags['sigflag']`. Currently, there are two signature flags.


- `SIG_INPUTS` requires valid signatures on all inputs. It is the default signature flag and will be applied even if the `sigflag` tag is absent.
- `SIG_ALL` requires valid signatures on all inputs and on all outputs.

The signature flag `SIG_ALL` is enforced if at least one of the `Proofs` have the flag `SIG_ALL`. Otherwise, `SIG_INPUTS` is enforced.

#### Signature

Signatures must be provided in the field `Proof.signatures` for each `Proof` which is an input. If the signature flags `sigflag` of all `Proofs` is `SIG_ALL`, signatures must also be provided for every output in its field `BlindedMessage.witness.signatures`.

##### Signed inputs
A `Proof` (an input) with a signature `P2PKWitness.signatures` on `secret` is the JSON (see [NUT-00][00]):
```json
{
  "amount": <int>, 
  "secret": <str>,
  "C": <hex_str>,
  "id": <str>,
  "witness": <P2PKWitness | str> // Signatures on "secret"
}
```

The `secret` of each input is **signed as a string**.

##### Signed outputs
A `BlindedMessage` (an output) with a signature `P2PKWitness.signatures` on `B_` is the JSON (see [NUT-00][00]):

```json
{
  "amount": int,
  "B_": hex_str,
  "witness": <P2PKWitness | str> // Signatures on "B_"
}
```

The `B_` of each output is **signed as bytes** which comes from the original hex string.

##### Witness format

`P2PKWitness` is a serialized JSON string of the form
```json
{
  "signatures": [<hex_str>, ...]
}
```

The `signatures` are an array of signatures in hex.

### Multisig
If the tag `n_sigs` is a positive integer, the mint will also consider signatures from public keys specified in the `pubkeys` tag additional to the public key in `Secret.data`. If the number of valid signatures is greater or equal to the number specified in `n_sigs`, the transaction is valid.

Expressed as an "n-of-m" scheme, `n = n_sigs` is the number of required signatures and `m = 1 ("data" field) + len(pubkeys tag)` is the number of public keys that could sign.

### Locktime
If the tag `locktime` is the unix time and the mint's local clock is greater than `locktime`, the `Proof` becomes spendable by anyone, except if the following condition is also true. Note: A `Proof` is considered spendable by anyone if it only requires a `secret` and a valid signature `C` to be spent (which is the default case).

#### Refund public keys
If the `locktime` is in the past and a tag `refund` is present, the `Proof` is spendable only if a valid signature by one of the the `refund` pubkeys is provided in `Proof.witness.signatures` and, depending on the signature flag, in `BlindedMessage.witness.signatures`.

#### Complex Example

This is an example `secret` that locks a `Proof` with a Pay-to-Pubkey (P2PK) condition that requires 2-of-3 signatures from the public keys in the `data` field and the `pubkeys` tag. If the `timelock` has passed, the `Proof` becomes spendable with a single signature from the public key in the `refund` tag. The signature flag `sigflag` indicates that signatures are necessary on the `inputs` and the `outputs` of a transaction.

```json
[
  "P2PK",
  {
    "nonce": "da62796403af76c80cd6ce9153ed3746",
    "data": "033281c37677ea273eb7183b783067f5244933ef78d8c3f15b1a77cb246099c26e",
    "tags": [
      [
        "sigflag",
        "SIG_ALL"
      ], 
      [
        "n_sigs",
        "2"
      ], 
      [
        "locktime",
        "1689418329"
      ],                   
      [
        "refund",
        "033281c37677ea273eb7183b783067f5244933ef78d8c3f15b1a77cb246099c26e"
      ],      
      [
        "pubkeys",
        "02698c4e2b5f9534cd0687d87513c759790cf829aa5739184a3e3735471fbda904",
        "023192200a0cfd3867e48eb63b03ff599c7e46c8f4e41146b2d281173ca6c50c54"
      ],
    ]
  }
]
```

## Use cases

The following use cases are unlocked using P2PK:
- Publicly post locked ecash that can only be redeemed by the intended receiver
- Final offline-receiver payments that can't be double-spent when combined with an offline signature check mechanism like DLEQ proofs
- Receiver of locked ecash can defer and batch multiple mint round trips for receiving proofs (requires DLEQ)
- Ecash that is owned by multiple people via the multisignature abilities
- Atomic swaps when used in combination with the locktime feature

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
