12.md, before:

NUT-12: Offline ecash signature validation
==========================

`optional`

---

In this document, we present an extension of Cashu's crypto system to allow a user `Alice` to verify the mint `Bob`'s signature using only `Bob`'s public keys. We explain how another user `Carol` who receives ecash from `Alice` can execute the DLEQ proof as well. This is achieved using a Discrete Log Equality (DLEQ) proof. Previously, `Bob`'s signature could only be checked by himself using his own private keys ([NUT-00](00)). 

# The DLEQ proof
The purpose of this DLEQ is to prove that the mint has used the same private key `a` for creating its public key `A` ([NUT-01](01)) and for signing the BlindedMessage `B'`. `Bob` returns the DLEQ proof additional to the blind signature `C'` for a mint or swap operation. 

The complete DLEQ proof reads
```
# DLEQ Proof

(These steps occur when Bob returns C')

Bob:
r = random nonce
R1 = r*G
R2 = r*B'
e = hash(R1,R2,A,C')
s = r + e*a
return e, s

Alice:
R1 = s*G - e*A
R2 = s*B' - e*C'
e == hash(R1,R2,A,C')

If true, a in A = a*G must be equal to a in C' = a*B'
```

### Mint to user: DLEQ in `BlindSignature`

The mint produces these DLEQ proofs when returning `BlindSignature`'s in the responses for minting ([NUT-04][04]) and swapping ([NUT-03][03]) tokens. The `BlindSignature` object is extended in the following way to include the DLEQ proof:

```json
{
  "id": <str>,
  "amount": <int>,
  "C_": <str>,
  "dleq": { <-- New: DLEQ proof
    "e": <str>,
    "s": <str>
  }
}

```

`e` and `s` are the DLEQ proof. 

### User to user: DLEQ in `Proof`

In order for `Alice` to communicate the DLEQ to another user `Carol`, we extend the `Proof` (see [NUT-00](00)) object and include the DLEQ proof. As explained below, we also need to include the blinding factor `r` for the proof to be convincing to another user `Carol`.

```json
{
  "id": <str>,
  "amount": <int>,
  "secret": <str>,
  "C": <str>,
  "dleq": { <-- New: DLEQ proof
    "e": <str>,
    "s": <str>,
    "r": <str>
  }
}
```
`e` and `s` are the challenge and response of the DLEQ proof returned by `Bob`, `r` is the blinding factor of `Alice` that was used to generate the `Proof`. `Alice` serializes these proofs like any other in a token (see [NUT-00][00]) to send it to another user `Carol`.

## Alice (minting user) verifies DLEQ proof

When minting or swapping tokens, `Alice` receives DLEQ proofs in the `BlindSignature` response from the mint `Bob`. `Alice` checks the validity of the DLEQ proofs for each ecash token she receives via the equations:

```
R1 = s*G - e*A
R2 = s*B' - e*C'
e == hash(R1,R2,A,C') # must be True
```

Here, the variables are
- `A` – the public key `Bob` used to sign this Proof
- `(e, s)` – the DLEQ proof returned by `Bob`
- `B'` – `Alice`'s `BlindedMessage`
- `C'` – `Bob`'s `BlindSignature` on `B'`

In order to execute the proof, `Alice` needs `e, s` that are returned in the `BlindSignature` by `Bob`. `Alice` further needs `B'` (the `BlindedMessage` `Alice` created and `Bob` signed) and `C'` (the blind signature in the `BlindSignature` response) from `Bob`, and `A` (the public key of `Bob` with which he signed the BlindedMessage). All these values are available to `Alice` during or after calling the mint and swap operations.

If a DLEQ proof is included in the mint's `BlindSignature` response, wallets **MUST** verify the DLEQ proof. 

## Carol (another user) verifies DLEQ proof

`Carol` is a user that receives `Proofs` in a token from another user Alice. When `Alice` sends `Proofs` with DLEQ proofs to `Carol` or when `Alice` posts the `Proofs` publicly, `Carol` can validate the DLEQ proof herself and verify `Bob`'s signature without having to talk to `Bob`. `Alice` includes the following information in the `Proof` (see above):

- `(x, C)` – the ecash `Proof`
- `(e, s)` – the DLEQ proof revealed by `Alice`
- `r` – `Alice`'s blinding factor

Here, `x` is the Proof's secret, and `C` is the mint's signature on it. To execute the DLEQ proof like `Alice` did above, `Carol` needs `(B', C')` which she can compute herself using the blinding factor `r` that she receives from `Alice`.

To verify the DLEQ proof of a received token, `Carol` needs to reconstruct `B'` and `C'` using the blinding factor `r` that `Alice` has included in the `Proof` she sent to `Carol`. Since `Carol` now has all the necessary information, she can execute the same equations to verify the DLEQ proof as `Alice` did:

```
Y = hash_to_curve(x)
C' = C + r*A
B' = Y + r*G

R1 = ... (same as Alice)
```

If a DLEQ proof is included in a received token, wallets **MUST** verify the proof. 

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md

Commit message:

NUT12: test vectors (#105)
* chore: Add hash_e description

* tests(NUT12): DLEQ BlindSignature and hash_e test vector

* tests: DLEQ of proof test vector

* chore: format

12.md, after:

NUT-12: Offline ecash signature validation
==========================

`optional`

---

In this document, we present an extension of Cashu's crypto system to allow a user `Alice` to verify the mint `Bob`'s signature using only `Bob`'s public keys. We explain how another user `Carol` who receives ecash from `Alice` can execute the DLEQ proof as well. This is achieved using a Discrete Log Equality (DLEQ) proof. Previously, `Bob`'s signature could only be checked by himself using his own private keys ([NUT-00](00)). 

# The DLEQ proof
The purpose of this DLEQ is to prove that the mint has used the same private key `a` for creating its public key `A` ([NUT-01](01)) and for signing the BlindedMessage `B'`. `Bob` returns the DLEQ proof additional to the blind signature `C'` for a mint or swap operation. 

The complete DLEQ proof reads
```
# DLEQ Proof

(These steps occur when Bob returns C')

Bob:
r = random nonce
R1 = r*G
R2 = r*B'
e = hash(R1,R2,A,C')
s = r + e*a
return e, s

Alice:
R1 = s*G - e*A
R2 = s*B' - e*C'
e == hash(R1,R2,A,C')

If true, a in A = a*G must be equal to a in C' = a*B'
```

### `hash(x: <Array<[PublicKey]>) -> bytes`

The hash(x) function generates a deterministic Sha256 hash for a given input list of `PublicKey`. The uncompressed hexadecimal representations of each `PublicKey` is concatenated before taking the Sha256 hash.

```python
def hash_e(*publickeys: PublicKey) -> bytes:
    e_ = ""
    for p in publickeys:
        _p = p.serialize(compressed=False).hex()
        e_ += str(_p)
    e = hashlib.sha256(e_.encode("utf-8")).digest()
    return e

```

### Mint to user: DLEQ in `BlindSignature`

The mint produces these DLEQ proofs when returning `BlindSignature`'s in the responses for minting ([NUT-04][04]) and swapping ([NUT-03][03]) tokens. The `BlindSignature` object is extended in the following way to include the DLEQ proof:

```json
{
  "id": <str>,
  "amount": <int>,
  "C_": <str>,
  "dleq": { <-- New: DLEQ proof
    "e": <str>,
    "s": <str>
  }
}

```

`e` and `s` are the DLEQ proof. 

### User to user: DLEQ in `Proof`

In order for `Alice` to communicate the DLEQ to another user `Carol`, we extend the `Proof` (see [NUT-00](00)) object and include the DLEQ proof. As explained below, we also need to include the blinding factor `r` for the proof to be convincing to another user `Carol`.

```json
{
  "id": <str>,
  "amount": <int>,
  "secret": <str>,
  "C": <str>,
  "dleq": { <-- New: DLEQ proof
    "e": <str>,
    "s": <str>,
    "r": <str>
  }
}
```
`e` and `s` are the challenge and response of the DLEQ proof returned by `Bob`, `r` is the blinding factor of `Alice` that was used to generate the `Proof`. `Alice` serializes these proofs like any other in a token (see [NUT-00][00]) to send it to another user `Carol`.

## Alice (minting user) verifies DLEQ proof

When minting or swapping tokens, `Alice` receives DLEQ proofs in the `BlindSignature` response from the mint `Bob`. `Alice` checks the validity of the DLEQ proofs for each ecash token she receives via the equations:

```
R1 = s*G - e*A
R2 = s*B' - e*C'
e == hash(R1,R2,A,C') # must be True
```

Here, the variables are
- `A` – the public key `Bob` used to sign this Proof
- `(e, s)` – the DLEQ proof returned by `Bob`
- `B'` – `Alice`'s `BlindedMessage`
- `C'` – `Bob`'s `BlindSignature` on `B'`

In order to execute the proof, `Alice` needs `e, s` that are returned in the `BlindSignature` by `Bob`. `Alice` further needs `B'` (the `BlindedMessage` `Alice` created and `Bob` signed) and `C'` (the blind signature in the `BlindSignature` response) from `Bob`, and `A` (the public key of `Bob` with which he signed the BlindedMessage). All these values are available to `Alice` during or after calling the mint and swap operations.

If a DLEQ proof is included in the mint's `BlindSignature` response, wallets **MUST** verify the DLEQ proof. 

## Carol (another user) verifies DLEQ proof

`Carol` is a user that receives `Proofs` in a token from another user Alice. When `Alice` sends `Proofs` with DLEQ proofs to `Carol` or when `Alice` posts the `Proofs` publicly, `Carol` can validate the DLEQ proof herself and verify `Bob`'s signature without having to talk to `Bob`. `Alice` includes the following information in the `Proof` (see above):

- `(x, C)` – the ecash `Proof`
- `(e, s)` – the DLEQ proof revealed by `Alice`
- `r` – `Alice`'s blinding factor

Here, `x` is the Proof's secret, and `C` is the mint's signature on it. To execute the DLEQ proof like `Alice` did above, `Carol` needs `(B', C')` which she can compute herself using the blinding factor `r` that she receives from `Alice`.

To verify the DLEQ proof of a received token, `Carol` needs to reconstruct `B'` and `C'` using the blinding factor `r` that `Alice` has included in the `Proof` she sent to `Carol`. Since `Carol` now has all the necessary information, she can execute the same equations to verify the DLEQ proof as `Alice` did:

```
Y = hash_to_curve(x)
C' = C + r*A
B' = Y + r*G

R1 = ... (same as Alice)
```

If a DLEQ proof is included in a received token, wallets **MUST** verify the proof. 

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
