14.md, before:

# NUT-14: Hashed Timelock Contracts (HTLCs)

`optional`

`depends on: NUT-10`

---

This NUT describes the use of Hashed Timelock Contracts (HTLCs) which defines a spending condition based on [NUT-10][10]'s well-known `Secret` format. Using HTLCs, ecash tokens can be locked to the hash of a preimage or a timelock. This enables use cases such as atomic swaps of ecash between users, and atomic coupling of an ecash spending condition to a Lightning HTLC.

`HTLC` spending conditions can be thought of as an extension of `P2PK` locks [NUT-11][11] but with a hash lock in `Secret.data` and a new `Proof.witness.preimage` witness in the locked inputs to be spent. The `preimage` that was used to spend a locked token can be retrieved using [NUT-07][07]. Caution: applications that rely on being able to retrieve the witness independent from the spender must check via the mint's [info][06] endpoint that NUT-07 is supported.

Caution: If the mint does not support this type of spending condition, proofs may be treated as a regular anyone-can-spend tokens. Applications need to make sure to check whether the mint supports a specific kind of spending condition by checking the mint's [info][06] endpoint.

## HTLC

[NUT-10][10] Secret `kind: HTLC`

If for a `Proof`, `Proof.secret` is a `Secret` of kind `HTLC`, the hash of the lock is in `Proof.secret.data`. The preimage for unlocking the HTLC is in the witness `Proof.witness.preimage`. All additional tags from `P2PK` locks are used here as well, allowing us to add a locktime, signature flag, and use multisig (see [NUT-11][11]).

Here is a concrete example of a `Secret` of kind `HTLC`:

```json
[
  "HTLC",
  {
    "nonce": "da62796403af76c80cd6ce9153ed3746",
    "data": "023192200a0cfd3867e48eb63b03ff599c7e46c8f4e41146b2d281173ca6c50c54",
    "tags": [
      [
        "pubkeys",
        "02698c4e2b5f9534cd0687d87513c759790cf829aa5739184a3e3735471fbda904"
      ],
      ["locktime", "1689418329"],
      [
        "refund",
        "033281c37677ea273eb7183b783067f5244933ef78d8c3f15b1a77cb246099c26e"
      ]
    ]
  }
]
```

A `Proof` with this `Secret` can be spent in two ways. To spend the hash lock, the witness in `Proof.witness` includes the preimage to `Secret.data` and a signature from the key in `Secret.tag.pubkeys`. Additionally, if the current system time is later than `Secret.tag.locktime`, the `Proof` can be spent if `Proof.witness` includes a signature from the key in `Secret.tags.refund`.

The hash lock in `Secret.data` and the preimage in `Proof.witness.preimage` is treated as 32 byte data encoded as 64 character hex strings.

See [NUT-11][11] for a description of the signature scheme, the additional use of signature flags, and how to require signature from multiple public keys (multisig).

##### Witness format

`HTLCWitness` is a serialized JSON string of the form

```json
{
  "preimage": <hex_str>,
  "signatures": <Array[<hex_str>]>
}
```

The witness for a spent proof can be obtained with a `Proof` state check (see [NUT-07][07]).

## Mint info setting

The [NUT-06][06] `MintMethodSetting` indicates support for this feature:

```json
{
  "14": {
    "supported": true
  }
}
```

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md

Commit message:

fixed size vanilla secret + case-by-case length well-known secrets.

14.md, after:

# NUT-14: Hashed Timelock Contracts (HTLCs)

`optional`

`depends on: NUT-10`

---

This NUT describes the use of Hashed Timelock Contracts (HTLCs) which defines a spending condition based on [NUT-10][10]'s well-known `Secret` format. Using HTLCs, ecash tokens can be locked to the hash of a preimage or a timelock. This enables use cases such as atomic swaps of ecash between users, and atomic coupling of an ecash spending condition to a Lightning HTLC.

`HTLC` spending conditions can be thought of as an extension of `P2PK` locks [NUT-11][11] but with a hash lock in `Secret.data` and a new `Proof.witness.preimage` witness in the locked inputs to be spent. The `preimage` that was used to spend a locked token can be retrieved using [NUT-07][07]. Caution: applications that rely on being able to retrieve the witness independent from the spender must check via the mint's [info][06] endpoint that NUT-07 is supported.

Caution: If the mint does not support this type of spending condition, proofs may be treated as a regular anyone-can-spend tokens. Applications need to make sure to check whether the mint supports a specific kind of spending condition by checking the mint's [info][06] endpoint.

## HTLC

[NUT-10][10] Secret `kind: HTLC`

If for a `Proof`, `Proof.secret` is a `Secret` of kind `HTLC`, the hash of the lock is in `Proof.secret.data`. The preimage for unlocking the HTLC is in the witness `Proof.witness.preimage`. All additional tags from `P2PK` locks are used here as well, allowing us to add a locktime, signature flag, and use multisig (see [NUT-11][11]).

Here is a concrete example of a `Secret` of kind `HTLC`:

```json
[
  "HTLC",
  {
    "nonce": "da62796403af76c80cd6ce9153ed3746",
    "data": "023192200a0cfd3867e48eb63b03ff599c7e46c8f4e41146b2d281173ca6c50c54",
    "tags": [
      [
        "pubkeys",
        "02698c4e2b5f9534cd0687d87513c759790cf829aa5739184a3e3735471fbda904"
      ],
      ["locktime", "1689418329"],
      [
        "refund",
        "033281c37677ea273eb7183b783067f5244933ef78d8c3f15b1a77cb246099c26e"
      ]
    ]
  }
]
```

A `Proof` with this `Secret` can be spent in two ways. To spend the hash lock, the witness in `Proof.witness` includes the preimage to `Secret.data` and a signature from the key in `Secret.tag.pubkeys`. Additionally, if the current system time is later than `Secret.tag.locktime`, the `Proof` can be spent if `Proof.witness` includes a signature from the key in `Secret.tags.refund`.

The combined length of the **value** entries of `Secret.tag.pubkeys` and `Secret.tag.refund` may not exceed 10 (e.g. `len(pubkeys[1:]) + len(refund[1:]) <= 10`).

The hash lock in `Secret.data` and the preimage in `Proof.witness.preimage` is treated as 32 byte data encoded as 64 character hex strings.

See [NUT-11][11] for a description of the signature scheme, the additional use of signature flags, and how to require signature from multiple public keys (multisig).

##### Witness format

`HTLCWitness` is a serialized JSON string of the form

```json
{
  "preimage": <hex_str>,
  "signatures": <Array[<hex_str>]>
}
```

The witness for a spent proof can be obtained with a `Proof` state check (see [NUT-07][07]).

## Mint info setting

The [NUT-06][06] `MintMethodSetting` indicates support for this feature:

```json
{
  "14": {
    "supported": true
  }
}
```

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
