17.md, before:

NUT-17: Mint tokens Bitcoin On-Chain
==========================

`optional`

---

This NUT describes the process of minting tokens on Bitcoin On-Chain analog to NUT-04 for Bitcoin Lightning. 

# Mint quote

To request a mint quote, the wallet of `Alice` makes a `POST /v1/mint/quote/{method}` request where `method` is the payment method requested (here `btconchain`). 

```http
POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/mint/quote/btconchain
```

The wallet of `Alice` includes the following `PostMintQuoteBtcOnchainRequest` data in its request:

```json
{
  "amount": <int>,
  "unit": <str_enum["sat"]>
}
```
 with the requested `amount` and the `unit`. 
 
 The mint `Bob` then responds with a `PostMintQuoteBtcOnchainResponse`:

```json
{
  "quote": <str>,
  "address": <str>,
  "paid": <bool>,
  "expiry": <int>
}
```

Where `quote` is the quote ID and `address` is the payment request to fulfill. `paid` indicates whether the request as been paid and `expiry` is the Unix timestamp until which the mint quote is valid.

Note: `quote` is a **unique and random** id generated by the mint to internally look up the payment state. `quote` **MUST** remain a secret between user and mint and **MUST NOT** be derivable from the payment request. A third party who knows the `quote` ID can front-run and steal the tokens that this operation mints.

## Example

Request of `Alice` with curl:

```bash
curl -X POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/mint/quote/btconchain -d '{"amount": 10, "unit": "sat"}' -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```

Response of `Bob`:

```json
{
  "quote": "DSGLX9kevM...",
  "address": "bc1qkyfgd7mus7ykfd7qkwakq75qsf7rtm...",
  "paid": false,
  "expiry": 1701704757
}
```

The wallet **MUST** store the `amount` in the request and the `quote` id in the response in its database so it can later request the tokens after paying the request. After payment, the wallet continues with the next section.

## Check mint quote state

To check whether a mint quote has been paid, `Alice` makes a `GET /v1/mint/quote/btconchain/{quote_id}`.

```http
GET https://mint.host:3338/v1/mint/quote/btconchain/{quote_id}
```

Like before, the mint `Bob` responds with a `PostMintQuoteBtcOnchainResponse`.

Example request of `Alice` with curl:

```bash
curl -X GET https://mint.host:3338/v1/mint/quote/btconchain/DSGLX9kevM...
```

# Minting tokens

After requesting a mint quote and paying the request, the wallet proceeds with minting new tokens by calling the `POST /v1/mint/{method}` endpoint where `method` is the payment method requested (here `btconchain`).

```http
POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/mint/btconchain
```

The wallet `Alice` includes the following `PostMintBtcOnchainRequest` data in its request

```json
{
  "quote": <str>,
  "outputs": <Array[BlindedMessage]>
}
```
 with the `quote` being the quote ID from the previous step and `outputs` being `BlindedMessages` (see [NUT-00][00]) that the wallet requests signatures on whose sum is `amount` as requested in the quote.
 
 The mint `Bob` then responds with a `PostMintBtcOnchainResponse`:

```json
{
  "signatures": <Array[BlindSignature]>
}
```

where `signatures` is an array of blind signatures on the outputs.

## Example

Request of `Alice` with curl:

```bash
curl -X POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/mint/btconchain -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d \
'{
  "quote": "DSGLX9kevM...",
  "outputs": [
    {
      "amount": 8,
      "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
      "B_": "035015e6d7ade60ba8426cefaf1832bbd27257636e44a76b922d78e79b47cb689d"
    },
    {
      "amount": 2,
      "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
      "B_": "0288d7649652d0a83fc9c966c969fb217f15904431e61a44b14999fabc1b5d9ac6"
    }
  ]
}'
```

Response of `Bob`: 

```json
{
  "signatures": [
    {
      "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
      "amount": 2,
      "C_": "0224f1c4c564230ad3d96c5033efdc425582397a5a7691d600202732edc6d4b1ec"
    },
    {
      "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
      "amount": 8,
      "C_": "0277d1de806ed177007e5b94a8139343b6382e472c752a74e99949d511f7194f6c"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Unblinding signatures

Upon receiving the `BlindSignatures` from the mint `Bob`, the wallet of `Alice` unblinds them to generate `Proofs` (using the blinding factor `r` and the mint's public key `K`, see BDHKE [NUT-00][00]). The wallet then stores these `Proofs` in its database:

```json
[
  {
  "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
  "amount": 2,
  "secret": "407915bc212be61a77e3e6d2aeb4c727980bda51cd06a6afc29e2861768a7837",
  "C": "02bc9097997d81afb2cc7346b5e4345a9346bd2a506eb7958598a72f0cf85163ea"
  },
  {
  "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
  "amount": 8,
  "secret": "fe15109314e61d7756b0f8ee0f23a624acaa3f4e042f61433c728c7057b931be",
  "C": "029e8e5050b890a7d6c0968db16bc1d5d5fa040ea1de284f6ec69d61299f671059"
  }
]
```

## Settings
The settings for this nut indicate the supported method-unit pairs for minting and whether minting is supported or not. They are part of the info response of the mint ([NUT-06][06]) which in this case reads 
```json
{
  "17": {
    "supported": true,
    "methods": [
      {
        "method": "btconchain",
        "unit": "sat",
        "min_amount": 10000,
        "max_amount": 1000000
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md

Commit message:

chore: use state enum instead of paid flag
Co-authored-by: thesimplekid <tsk@thesimplekid.com>

17.md, after:

NUT-17: Mint tokens Bitcoin On-Chain
==========================

`optional`

---

This NUT describes the process of minting tokens on Bitcoin On-Chain analog to NUT-04 for Bitcoin Lightning. 

# Mint quote

To request a mint quote, the wallet of `Alice` makes a `POST /v1/mint/quote/{method}` request where `method` is the payment method requested (here `btconchain`). 

```http
POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/mint/quote/btconchain
```

The wallet of `Alice` includes the following `PostMintQuoteBtcOnchainRequest` data in its request:

```json
{
  "amount": <int>,
  "unit": <str_enum["sat"]>
}
```
 with the requested `amount` and the `unit`. 
 
 The mint `Bob` then responds with a `PostMintQuoteBtcOnchainResponse`:

```json
{
  "quote": <str>,
  "address": <str>,
  "paid": <bool>,
  "expiry": <int>
}
```

Where `quote` is the quote ID and `address` is the payment request to fulfill. 

`state` is an enum string field with possible values `"UNPAID"`, `"PAID"`, `"PENDING"`, `"ISSUED"`:
- `"UNPAID"` means that the quote's request has not been paid yet.
- `"PAID"` means that the request has been paid.
- `"PENDING"` means that the quote is currently being issued.
- `"ISSUED"` means that the quote has already been issued.

Note: `quote` is a **unique and random** id generated by the mint to internally look up the payment state. `quote` **MUST** remain a secret between user and mint and **MUST NOT** be derivable from the payment request. A third party who knows the `quote` ID can front-run and steal the tokens that this operation mints.

## Example

Request of `Alice` with curl:

```bash
curl -X POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/mint/quote/btconchain -d '{"amount": 10, "unit": "sat"}' -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```

Response of `Bob`:

```json
{
  "quote": "DSGLX9kevM...",
  "address": "bc1qkyfgd7mus7ykfd7qkwakq75qsf7rtm...",
  "paid": false,
  "expiry": 1701704757
}
```

The wallet **MUST** store the `amount` in the request and the `quote` id in the response in its database so it can later request the tokens after paying the request. After payment, the wallet continues with the next section.

## Check mint quote state

To check whether a mint quote has been paid, `Alice` makes a `GET /v1/mint/quote/btconchain/{quote_id}`.

```http
GET https://mint.host:3338/v1/mint/quote/btconchain/{quote_id}
```

Like before, the mint `Bob` responds with a `PostMintQuoteBtcOnchainResponse`.

Example request of `Alice` with curl:

```bash
curl -X GET https://mint.host:3338/v1/mint/quote/btconchain/DSGLX9kevM...
```

# Minting tokens

After requesting a mint quote and paying the request, the wallet proceeds with minting new tokens by calling the `POST /v1/mint/{method}` endpoint where `method` is the payment method requested (here `btconchain`).

```http
POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/mint/btconchain
```

The wallet `Alice` includes the following `PostMintBtcOnchainRequest` data in its request

```json
{
  "quote": <str>,
  "outputs": <Array[BlindedMessage]>
}
```
 with the `quote` being the quote ID from the previous step and `outputs` being `BlindedMessages` (see [NUT-00][00]) that the wallet requests signatures on whose sum is `amount` as requested in the quote.
 
 The mint `Bob` then responds with a `PostMintBtcOnchainResponse`:

```json
{
  "signatures": <Array[BlindSignature]>
}
```

where `signatures` is an array of blind signatures on the outputs.

## Example

Request of `Alice` with curl:

```bash
curl -X POST https://mint.host:3338/v1/mint/btconchain -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d \
'{
  "quote": "DSGLX9kevM...",
  "outputs": [
    {
      "amount": 8,
      "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
      "B_": "035015e6d7ade60ba8426cefaf1832bbd27257636e44a76b922d78e79b47cb689d"
    },
    {
      "amount": 2,
      "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
      "B_": "0288d7649652d0a83fc9c966c969fb217f15904431e61a44b14999fabc1b5d9ac6"
    }
  ]
}'
```

Response of `Bob`: 

```json
{
  "signatures": [
    {
      "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
      "amount": 2,
      "C_": "0224f1c4c564230ad3d96c5033efdc425582397a5a7691d600202732edc6d4b1ec"
    },
    {
      "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
      "amount": 8,
      "C_": "0277d1de806ed177007e5b94a8139343b6382e472c752a74e99949d511f7194f6c"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Unblinding signatures

Upon receiving the `BlindSignatures` from the mint `Bob`, the wallet of `Alice` unblinds them to generate `Proofs` (using the blinding factor `r` and the mint's public key `K`, see BDHKE [NUT-00][00]). The wallet then stores these `Proofs` in its database:

```json
[
  {
  "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
  "amount": 2,
  "secret": "407915bc212be61a77e3e6d2aeb4c727980bda51cd06a6afc29e2861768a7837",
  "C": "02bc9097997d81afb2cc7346b5e4345a9346bd2a506eb7958598a72f0cf85163ea"
  },
  {
  "id": "009a1f293253e41e",
  "amount": 8,
  "secret": "fe15109314e61d7756b0f8ee0f23a624acaa3f4e042f61433c728c7057b931be",
  "C": "029e8e5050b890a7d6c0968db16bc1d5d5fa040ea1de284f6ec69d61299f671059"
  }
]
```

## Settings
The settings for this nut indicate the supported method-unit pairs for minting and whether minting is supported or not. They are part of the info response of the mint ([NUT-06][06]) which in this case reads 
```json
{
  "17": {
    "supported": true,
    "methods": [
      {
        "method": "btconchain",
        "unit": "sat",
        "min_amount": 10000,
        "max_amount": 1000000
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
