18.md, before:

# NUT-18: Payment Requests

`optional`

---

This NUT introduces a standardised format for payment requests, that supply a sending wallet with all information necessary to complete the transaction. This enables many use-cases where a transaction is better initiated by the receiver (e.g. point of sale).

## Flow

1. Receiver creates a payment request, encodes it and displays it to the sender
2. Sender scans the request and constructs a matching token
3. Sender sends the token according to the transport specified in the payment request
4. Receiver receives the token and finalises the transaction

## Payment Request

A Payment Request is defined as follows

```json
{
  "i": str <optional>,
  "a": int <optional>,
  "u": str <optional>,
  "s": bool <optional>,
  "m": Array[str] <optional>,
  "d": str <optional>,
  "t": Array[Transport]
}
```

Here, the fields are

- `i`: Payment id to be included in the payment payload
- `a`: The amount of the requested payment
- `u`: The unit of the requested payment (MUST be set if `a` is set)
- `s`: Whether the payment request is for single use
- `m`: A set of mints from which the payment is requested
- `d`: A human readable description that the sending wallet will display after scanning the request
- `t`: The method of `Transport` chosen to transmit the payment (can be multiple, sorted by preference)

## Transport

`Transport` specifies methods for sending the ecash to the receiver. A transport consists of a type and a target.

```json
{
  "t": str,
  "a": str,
  "g": Array[Array[str, str]] <optional>
}
```

- `t`: type of Transport
- `a`: target of Transport
- `g`: optional tags for the Transport

### Tags

Tags are an optional array of `[tag, value, value, ...]` tuples that can be used to specify additional features about the transport. A single tag can have multiple values.

### Transport types

The supported transport types are described below.

#### Nostr

- type: `nostr`
- target: `<nprofile>`
- tags: `[["n", "17"]]`

The `n` tag specifies the NIPs the receiver supports. At least one tag value MUST be specified. For [NIP-17](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/17.md) direct messages, the sender sends a `PaymentRequestPayload` as the message content.

#### HTTP POST

- type: `post`
- target: `<endpoint url>`

The execute the payment, the sender makes a `POST` request to the specified endpoint URL with the `PaymentRequestPayload` as the body.

## Payment payload

If not specified otherwise, the payload sent to the receiver is a `PaymentRequestPayload` JSON serialized object as follows:

```json
{
  "id": str <optional>,
  "memo": str <optional>,
  "mint": str,
  "unit": <str_enum>,
  "proofs": Array<Proof>
}
```

Here, `id` is the payment id (corresponding to `i` in request), `memo` is an optional memo to be sent to the receiver with the payment, `mint` is the mint URL from which the ecash is from, `unit` is the unit of the payment, and `proofs` is an array of proofs (see [NUT-00][00], can also include DLEQ proofs).

## Encoded Request

The payment request is serialized using CBOR, encoded in `base64_urlsafe`, together with a prefix `creq` and a version `A`:

`"creq" + "A" + base64(CBOR(PaymentRequest))`

### Example

This is an example payment request expressed as JSON:

```json
{
  "i": "b7a90176",
  "a": 10,
  "u": "sat",
  "m": ["https://nofees.testnut.cashu.space"],
  "t": [
    {
      "t": "nostr",
      "a": "nprofile1qy28wumn8ghj7un9d3shjtnyv9kh2uewd9hsz9mhwden5te0wfjkccte9curxven9eehqctrv5hszrthwden5te0dehhxtnvdakqqgydaqy7curk439ykptkysv7udhdhu68sucm295akqefdehkf0d495cwunl5",
      "g": [["n", "17"]]
    }
  ]
}
```

This payment request serializes to (see [here](https://cbor.nemo157.com/#type=hex&value=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)):

```sh
creqApWF0gaNhdGVub3N0cmFheKlucHJvZmlsZTFxeTI4d3VtbjhnaGo3dW45ZDNzaGp0bnl2OWtoMnVld2Q5aHN6OW1od2RlbjV0ZTB3ZmprY2N0ZTljdXJ4dmVuOWVlaHFjdHJ2NWhzenJ0aHdkZW41dGUwZGVoaHh0bnZkYWtxcWd5ZGFxeTdjdXJrNDM5eWtwdGt5c3Y3dWRoZGh1NjhzdWNtMjk1YWtxZWZkZWhrZjBkNDk1Y3d1bmw1YWeBgmFuYjE3YWloYjdhOTAxNzZhYQphdWNzYXRhbYF4Imh0dHBzOi8vbm9mZWVzLnRlc3RudXQuY2FzaHUuc3BhY2U=
```

[00]: 00.md

Commit message:

Added x-cashu method to NUT-18\

18.md, after:

# NUT-18: Payment Requests

`optional`

---

This NUT introduces a standardised format for payment requests, that supply a sending wallet with all information necessary to complete the transaction. This enables many use-cases where a transaction is better initiated by the receiver (e.g. point of sale).

## Flow

1. Receiver creates a payment request, encodes it and displays it to the sender
2. Sender scans the request and constructs a matching token
3. Sender sends the token according to the transport specified in the payment request
4. Receiver receives the token and finalises the transaction

## Payment Request

A Payment Request is defined as follows

```json
{
  "i": str <optional>,
  "a": int <optional>,
  "u": str <optional>,
  "s": bool <optional>,
  "m": Array[str] <optional>,
  "d": str <optional>,
  "t": Array[Transport]
}
```

Here, the fields are

- `i`: Payment id to be included in the payment payload
- `a`: The amount of the requested payment
- `u`: The unit of the requested payment (MUST be set if `a` is set)
- `s`: Whether the payment request is for single use
- `m`: A set of mints from which the payment is requested
- `d`: A human readable description that the sending wallet will display after scanning the request
- `t`: The method of `Transport` chosen to transmit the payment (can be multiple, sorted by preference)

## Transport

`Transport` specifies methods for sending the ecash to the receiver. A transport consists of a type and a target.

```json
{
  "t": str,
  "a": str,
  "g": Array[Array[str, str]] <optional>
}
```

- `t`: type of Transport
- `a`: target of Transport
- `g`: optional tags for the Transport

### Tags

Tags are an optional array of `[tag, value, value, ...]` tuples that can be used to specify additional features about the transport. A single tag can have multiple values.

### Transport types

The supported transport types are described below.

#### Nostr

- type: `nostr`
- target: `<nprofile>`
- tags: `[["n", "17"]]`

The `n` tag specifies the NIPs the receiver supports. At least one tag value MUST be specified. For [NIP-17](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/17.md) direct messages, the sender sends a `PaymentRequestPayload` as the message content.

#### HTTP POST

- type: `post`
- target: `<endpoint url>`

The execute the payment, the sender makes a `POST` request to the specified endpoint URL with the `PaymentRequestPayload` as the body.

#### X-Cashu

- type: `x-cashu`
- target: `<endpoint-url>`
- tags: `[["c", "replay"]]`

The payment is expected in the X-Cashu header on a request to the specified endpoint.
The tags specify constraints that the request MUST have. `replay` can be found in Payment Requests on HTTP 402 responses and requires that the exact same request is send again, but with a X-Cashu header paying the PR.

## Payment payload

If not specified otherwise, the payload sent to the receiver is a `PaymentRequestPayload` JSON serialized object as follows:

```json
{
  "id": str <optional>,
  "memo": str <optional>,
  "mint": str,
  "unit": <str_enum>,
  "proofs": Array<Proof>
}
```

Here, `id` is the payment id (corresponding to `i` in request), `memo` is an optional memo to be sent to the receiver with the payment, `mint` is the mint URL from which the ecash is from, `unit` is the unit of the payment, and `proofs` is an array of proofs (see [NUT-00][00], can also include DLEQ proofs).

## Encoded Request

The payment request is serialized using CBOR, encoded in `base64_urlsafe`, together with a prefix `creq` and a version `A`:

`"creq" + "A" + base64(CBOR(PaymentRequest))`

### Example

This is an example payment request expressed as JSON:

```json
{
  "i": "b7a90176",
  "a": 10,
  "u": "sat",
  "m": ["https://nofees.testnut.cashu.space"],
  "t": [
    {
      "t": "nostr",
      "a": "nprofile1qy28wumn8ghj7un9d3shjtnyv9kh2uewd9hsz9mhwden5te0wfjkccte9curxven9eehqctrv5hszrthwden5te0dehhxtnvdakqqgydaqy7curk439ykptkysv7udhdhu68sucm295akqefdehkf0d495cwunl5",
      "g": [["n", "17"]]
    }
  ]
}
```

This payment request serializes to (see [here](https://cbor.nemo157.com/#type=hex&value=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)):

```sh
creqApWF0gaNhdGVub3N0cmFheKlucHJvZmlsZTFxeTI4d3VtbjhnaGo3dW45ZDNzaGp0bnl2OWtoMnVld2Q5aHN6OW1od2RlbjV0ZTB3ZmprY2N0ZTljdXJ4dmVuOWVlaHFjdHJ2NWhzenJ0aHdkZW41dGUwZGVoaHh0bnZkYWtxcWd5ZGFxeTdjdXJrNDM5eWtwdGt5c3Y3dWRoZGh1NjhzdWNtMjk1YWtxZWZkZWhrZjBkNDk1Y3d1bmw1YWeBgmFuYjE3YWloYjdhOTAxNzZhYQphdWNzYXRhbYF4Imh0dHBzOi8vbm9mZWVzLnRlc3RudXQuY2FzaHUuc3BhY2U=
```

[00]: 00.md
