# NUT-XX: WebSockets

`optional`, `depends on: NUT-07`

---

This NUT defines a websocket protocol that enables bidirectional communication between apps and mints using the JSON-RPC format.

## Subscriptions

The websocket enables real-time subscriptions that wallets can use to receive notifications for a state change of a `MintQuoteResponse` ([NUT-04][04]), `MeltQuoteResponse` ([NUT-05][05]), `CheckStateResponse` ([NUT-07][07]).

A summary of the subscription flow is the following:

1. A wallet connects to the websocket endpoint and sends a `WsRequest` with the `subscribe` command.
2. The mint responds with a `WsResponse` containing an ok or an error.
3. If the subscription was accepted, the mint sends a `WsNotification` whenever there is an update for the wallet's subscriptions.
4. To close a subscription, the wallet sends `WsRequest` with the `unsubscribe` command.

## Specifications

`NUT-XX` uses the JSON-RPC format for all messages. There are three types of messages defined in this NUT.

### Requests

`WsRequest` is sent from the app to the mint.

```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "method": <str_enum[WsRequestMethod]>,
  "params": <str_WsRequestParams>,
  "id": <int>
}
```
`WsRequestMethod` is an enum of the supported commands which are

```ts
enum WsRequestMethod {
  sub = "subscribe",
  unsub = "unsubscribe",
}
```
`WsRequestParams` is a serialized JSON with the parameters for the corresponding method.

The parameters for the `subscribe` command are

```json
{
  "kind": <str_enum[SubscriptionKind]>;
  "subId": <string>;
  "filters": <string[]>;
}
```

Here, `subId` is a unique subscription ID generated by the client to connect the mint's responses to its subscription.

`SubscriptionKind` is an enum with the following possible values:

```ts
enum SubscriptionKind {
  bolt11_melt_quote = "bolt11_melt_quote",
  bolt11_mint_quote = "bolt11_mint_quote",
  proof_state = "proof_state"
}
```

The `filters` are an array of mint quote IDs, or melt quote IDs, or `Y`'s of the corresponding object to receive updates from. As an example, `filters` would be of the following form to subscribe for updates of three different mint quote IDs:
```json
[
  "20385fc7245...", "d06667cda9b...", "e14d8ca96f..."
]
```

Please note that `id` and `subId` are unrelated. The `subId` is the ID for each subscription, whereas `id` is part of the JSON-RPC spec and is an integer counter that must be incremented for every request sent over the websocket.

### Responses

A `WsResponse` is returned by the mint to indicates that a subscription request was ok:

```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": {
    "status": "OK",
    "subId": <str>
  },
  "id": <int>
}
```

Here, the `id` corresponds to the `id` in the request (as part of the JSON-RPC spec) and `subId` corresponds to the subscription ID.

### Notifications

Notifications are sent by the mint to the wallet and contain subscription data with the following format

```ts
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "method": "subscribe",
  "params": {
    "subId": <str>,
    "payload": NotificationPayload
  }
}
```

`NotificationPayload` carries the subscription data which is a `MintQuoteResponse` ([NUT-04][04]), a `MeltQuoteResponse` ([NUT-05][05]), or a `CheckStateResponse` ([NUT-07][07]), depending on what the corresponding `SubscriptionKind` was.

### Errors

`WsErrors` for a given `WsRequest` are returned in the following format

```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "error": {
    "code": -32601,
    "message": "Human readable error message"
  },
  "id": "1"
}
```

## Signaling Support via NUT-06

Mints signal websocket support via [NUT-06][06] the following setting:

```json
"nuts": {
    "xx": {
      "supported": <str[]>,
    }
}
```

Here, `supported` is an array of the commands that the mint supports. A mint that supports all commands would return `["bolt11_mint_quote", "bolt11_melt_quote", "proof_state"]`


[00]: 00.md
[01]: 01.md
[02]: 02.md
[03]: 03.md
[04]: 04.md
[05]: 05.md
[06]: 06.md
[07]: 07.md
[08]: 08.md
[09]: 09.md
[10]: 10.md
[11]: 11.md
[12]: 12.md
